2013_ENGL_04649658.pdf	2013	The utopian/dystopian genre of literature tends to marginalize women into subservient roles to men. This Independent Study examines four novels that break these patriarchal expectations of utopian/dystopian literature, Charlotte Gilman's Herland, Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale, Ursula Le Guin's The Left Hand of Darkness, and Anthony Burgess's A Clockwork Orange. Through these four novels I determine different areas of society in which women are oppressed and the consequences that has on society. Men use rape, sex, gender binaries, and gender roles to oppress women. Gilman, Atwood, Le Guin, and Burgess all present arguments for how these binaries are detrimental to society through utopian paradises without men and dark satires of societies that specifically oppress women. These four novels argue to discontinue gender oppression and show the improvements society would have if women were given positions of power. Finally, these four authors directly show the flaws in traditional utopian/dystopian literature that are rooted in patriarchal ideas.
2013_ENGL_04649659.pdf	2013	A cross comparison of several myths and fairy tales that identifies literary elements such as themes, patterns, and symbols that reveal the effects of social and cultural pressures on the psychosexual development of both characters and readers.
2013_ENGL_04649661.pdf	2013	Route 28 is a linked collection of short stories about women of different ages. The collection includes multiple stories about five women who are connected through common relationships with people and by living in Pittsburgh. The story collection is preceded by a critical introduction which serves as an analysis of the characters, stories, and story writing process.
2013_ENGL_04649662.pdf	2013	A memoir about the experience of growing up with Asperger's Syndrome, spending twelve years at a special education school, and learning the ins and outs of friendship.
2013_ENGL_04649663.pdf	2013	This senior thesis is presented as a partial fulfillment of the requirement of Independent Study English 451 and French 452. The thesis is a manuscript composed of 43 poems. Every poem explore specific theme: African identity, and American identity, nostalgia from Senegal.
2013_ENGL_04649664.pdf	2013	Cracks Between the Cobble: France and the World out There is the memoir of an American study-abroad student in France and Europe. Concepts of internationality, simultaneity of identity and the ethics of travel are discussed and explained through the narrators trials and tribulations on foreign soil.
2013_ENGL_04649665.pdf	2013	A creative nonfiction exploration of living with chronic illness, consisting of a series of narrative essays, and informed by both other memoir authors whose work involves illness and previous scholarly research of illness.
2013_ENGL_04649666.pdf	2013	A poetry collection and family history, based on my grandmother's upbringing in rural Kentucky in the early 20th Century.
2013_ENGL_04649668.pdf	2013	This project is a collection of poems and prose poems that looks for the strange within everyday experience and the familiar in the bizarre. It combines the real world with psychological and often surreal landscapes.
2013_ENGL_04649671.pdf	2013	This paper explores the premier newspaper in the Amish community, The Budget. It looks at the history of the paper, the types of news it covers, how adequately it reports important topic,and how that coverage affects how English view the Amish culture--as well as how the Amish culture views itself.
2013_ENGL_04649672.pdf	2013	This project is a multi-genre exploration of lesbian life writing, starting with its earliest form with the novel The Well of Loneliness and moving into contemporary discussions of autobiography and memoir as well as my own short memoir pieces.
2013_ENGL_04649673.pdf	2013	Within my thesis, I examine three short works by the Southern Gothic writer Flannery O'Connor. I utilize feminist psychoanalytic theories in order to delve deeper into the unconscious of her characters and develop an original claim.
2013_ENGL_04649675.pdf	2013	This Independent Study thesis analyzes One Hundred Years of Solitude by Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Beloved by Toni Morrison. The role of Magical Realism as a centralizing factor against an oppressive force is analyzed.
2013_ENGL_04649676.pdf	2013	An Independent Study to illustrate the importance of mythology in modern literature. Here, the story of Pentheus, Cadmus, and Dionysus is reinvented to fit our modern world, reflecting American life from the 1950s, Beatniks, and our own generation.
2013_ENGL_04649677.pdf	2013	Through both critical inquiry and creative writing, I have explored the reasons why fans of horror love the genre. This thesis attempts to give insight into the myriad concepts associated with horror: slasher films and final girls, subgenres including psychological and body horror, the thrill of the taboo and the safety in voyeurism. Following my original linked short stories, (all set in the same wretched hive with the central themes of the genesis of a monster inextricably linked to the loneliness of urban existence), a critical section details my influences, theories, pitfalls, and strengths as I wrote this thesis. One of my ultimate goals for this collection was to acknowledge the cinematic influences on my life and entertainment choices, whilst also making the case that the written word is more effective in portraying sympathetic and fully realized characters.
2013_ENGL_04649678.pdf	2013	This Independent Study examines the genre of the young adult dystopia and how it has presented a progressive view of the dystopian genre as a whole through a discussion of technology, mind control, and rebellion within Suzanne Collins' Hunger Games trilogy as well as Beth Revis' novels Across the Universe and A Million Suns.
2013_ENGL_04649679.pdf	2013	From Compost to Gram's Kitchen: A Cultural History of Food is a memoir combined with a look at food culture in the USA. This project is based on my relationship with my grandmother, Janice Zanette Fackler, who taught me how to cook before she passed away in 2007. My I.S. examines questions about the US farm and food industry, the role that etiquette plays in our enjoyment of food, how relationships and power dynamics form around food, and how advertising affects our relationship with food and meals. This project also looks at sustainable agricultural practices and food movements and their personal, local, and global benefits. Besides memoir, I also use poetry, recipes, and critical analysis to form my IS.
2013_ENGL_04649680.pdf	2013	The overarching goal of my I.S. is to make people question how deeply the religious ideas we are taught as children impact us later in life. Rather than simply a play about religion, my play attempts to examine people's lives and how the decisions they make are influenced by religion, whether they are aware of it or not. Specifically, I explore the relationship between Judaism and West Los Angeles. I have looked at how this community makes up a large part of the place where I was born and raised, even though very few people in West Los Angeles would consider themselves practicing Jews. This exploration lead me to larger questions, including how the ideas within the Jewish community I was raised have impacted the Israeli/Palestinian conflict, and the place of homosexuality within contemporary Judaism. To create my play, I wrote about real-life situations and experiences I've had in Los Angeles and looked to then draw out the significance of religion afterwards. Hopefully my work will complicate the issues of contemporary Judaism and allow people to question things that they might not otherwise.
2013_ENGL_04649681.pdf	2013	My Independent Study sought to illuminate the complex relationship between metropolitan areas and their inhabitants. I decided the best genre for my creative explication was theater. Each creative motif placed throughout was carefully sorted based on research. My play was created to exist in both physical and visual realms. It seeks to dissect the multifaceted correlation between urbanism and paralysis.
2013_ENGL_04649682.pdf	2013	This American Studies project explored the relationship between two novels and a short story to the suburban landscape. The aim was to discover what created the desire for such disconnected, privatized lives and stopped America from becoming primarily urban? I concluded that cooperating external forces, such as the federal government, the real estate industry, automobile corporations and developers, influenced the move from cities to suburbs. While the history and design of suburbs displayed an overexaggerated ideal, suburban literature portrayed the suburb's inhabitants lived experience.
2013_ENGL_04649683.pdf	2013	The comic strip and animated series The Boondocks is about two African American males, Riley and Huey, who move from the South side of Chicago to Woodcrest, Maryland with their grandfather, Robert Freeman. While living in Maryland they experience a number of issues that undergo in the African American community. By critically analyzing The Boondocks, my I.S will demonstrate how Aaron McGruder use Riley and Huey to created a hybrid between double consciousness and minstrelsy therefore articulating a new black male performativity that challenges white normative assumptions. Establishing how modern black male identity is both a collaboration and separation of what both Riley and Huey represent. Riley represents the stereotypical African American male in white society who wants to be a rapper, a thug, and thinks he's a real nigga. Whereas, Huey represents the African American male revolutionary that threatens white American institutions because he is educated and politically knowledgeable. Although McGruder articulates versions of the contemporary African American male identity, he fails to address the contemporary role of African American women. Therefore, he depicts black women in traditional forms as ornaments or as scapegoats instead of functional characters in The Boondocks comic strip and series. In this way he demonstrates that both contemporary African American males and females still struggle to be accepted by white America and he shows this causes identity issues.
2013_ENGL_04649684.pdf	2013	A creative writing project light novel with a critical introduction. It follows a high school student that is accidentally killed and through circumstances out of his control it becomes his job, along with same character that killed him, to restore order to an afterlife that is rife with the corruption of the real world. Through this novella I employ such devices as duality, sin and the moral obligations that one may have toward it, and the idea of a Christ-figure.
2013_ENGL_04649685.pdf	2013	This Independent Study is about children who are transracially adopted in white homes. Further analysis explains how children suffer from identity issues, lack of birth culture exposure, and how the families cope with being seen as different.
2013_ENGL_04649686.pdf	2013	This Study examines the role that Indian Broadcast Media plays in furthering the democracy of the country. In contemporary India the Indian public still plays a significant role in forming citizenry. This makes my inquiry significant in intervening into the consequences news framing has on the narratives of the public agenda in Indian contemporary (2008-2012) democracy.
2013_ENGL_04649687.pdf	2013	This Independent Study thesis is divided into five chapters. The first chapter What Seems Valuable to Humans? discusses the thought experiment made by philosopher Robert Nozick. It shows us that what is valuable to the human animal is clearly not found in any one mental state. Instead, it would seem, upon reflection, that what is actually valuable to us is the ability to make choices and have actions. To have choices and actions (also known as evaluations) that are clearly ours appears to be of great value to us. This is especially notable when contrasted with those choices, actions, and experiences one may have in the experience machine which are undesirable, regardless of the quality of the experiences, because they are synthetic and constructed choices and actions. The second chapter, What is Autonomy? discusses what I believe the thought experiment suggests is valuable, autonomy or making our own choices and having our own actions. It gives a definition of autonomy, as discussed by philosopher Julian Savulescu. It looks closely at what it means to be autonomous, which is to have a life plan based on rational desires and the tendency to act towards the fulfillment of those desires. It then briefly considers some initial problems one might have with Savulescu's criteria for a desire to be considered rational. It then discusses another important factor of autonomy, overlooked by Savulescu, and that is the importance of our reflective capacity. Without this ability we would be unable to have rational desires and thereby be autonomous. The section concludes by positing the question, Why is it that humans value autonomy and how is it related to their nature? The third chapter, Why Being Autonomous is Important for Us examines the reasoning for why I believe being autonomous is valuable to humans. It looks at Aristotle's teleology as discussed by philosopher Christine Korsgaard. I formally argue that the characteristic activity of a human being consists, in part, in being an evaluator and that the purpose of a human is to flourish in the human way, but a necessary condition for flourishing is autonomy. Autonomy, because it is a necessary condition for human flourishing is uniquely valuable to every human. The fourth chapter of my thesis, Objections and Further Considerations discusses some possible objections people might raise in regards to my theory. It first discusses the Humean objection that I believe could be raised in regards to the role I suggest reason plays in shaping our desires. The second objection is one along the lines of Michael Sandel's argument about the fallacy of an unencumbered self. I believe both of these objections can be met. I then discuss some implications I believe would follow from autonomy's valuable position to humans such as a morality centered around the value of autonomous expression. Similarly I discuss virtues and vices that I believe would either encourage or discourage autonomous expression for both individuals and a society. At some point however, argumentation can only go so far in convincing a reader. Eventually I run out of arguments and logical argumentation fails to convince. Therefore, in the fifth chapter of my thesis I participate in the ancient philosophical tradition of storytelling in an attempt to convey to my reader, from a different perspective, the value of autonomy. I have written two short stories which serve as allegorical links to my conception of autonomy. The first portrays what happens when autonomy is not valued and the second portrays a life where autonomy is valued. They force the readers to question just how autonomously they are living.
2013_ENGL_04649688.pdf	2013	This independent study is a series of seven short stories based on a contemporary view of the seven deadly sins. The stories are written about pride, lust, greed, gluttony, wrath, envy, and sloth and are written in a de-secularized view.
2013_ENGL_04649689.pdf	2013	An analysis of the re-imagined television show Battlestar Galactica in the context of how conflict between man and machine provides insights into real-world fears about autonomy, identity, and the meaning of life and death.
2013_ENGL_04649690.pdf	2013	This Is How Girls work is a queer memoir that focuses on gender and sexuality and the way identity is formed out of social and personal perceptions. The text explores the intricacies of emotions and the power of emulation, mirroring, twins, passion, lust, in addition to things such as the physical space of bathrooms. Looking at adolescent relationships, This Is How Girls walk is a coming of age story that details the boundaries and ambiguity that come along with variant sexual and gender identities.
2013_ENGL_04649691.pdf	2013	This project forms a definition of satirical impression, describes several of the most notable political impressions on Saturday Night Live and shows how impressions actually alter the way that the national electorate views politicians.
2013_ENGL_04649692.pdf	2013	This project uses trauma theory to examine William Faulkner's novels The Sound and the Fury and Absalom, Absalom! Freud, Caruth, and LaCapra are three main theorists that are utilized in understanding the traumatic influence that the South had on the characters within the novels. Through these frameworks, the reader can further understand the characters and their actions. Ultimately, trauma within Faulkner's novels shows how the South was traumatic for everyone who lived there.
2013_ENGL_04649693.pdf	2013	This Independent Study examines the ways in which directors of the French New Wave and contemporary indie cinema use the figure of the flâneuse and the concept of flânerie in their respective films. Specifically analyzing Agnès Varda's Cléo de 5 Ã 7 (1962), Alain Resnais's Hiroshima mon amour (1959), Sofia Coppola's Lost in Translation (2003), and Cate Shortland's Somersault (2004), this project evaluates themes of female image, identity, movement, and spectatorship that emerge in these “flâneuristic” films.
2013_ENGL_04649694.pdf	2013	This thesis examined Alice in Wonderland from a Psychoanalytic, Feminist, and Marxist perspective, looking at Alice's shifting identity and perspectives during her journey through her internal world of Wonderland.
2013_ENGL_04649695.pdf	2013	An original screenplay following the first train robbers of the Old West, loosely based on a true story.
2012_ENGL_04649696.pdf	2012	My Senior Independent Study project is an autobiographical poetry collection arranged in roughly chronological order by theme. Its major themes include memory, loss, love, and family. My critical introduction explores some history of confessional poetry as well as the work of other poets and how their poetry influenced mine.
2012_ENGL_04649698.pdf	2012	This Senior Independent Study project is the first part of a young adult fiction novel, accompanied by a critical analysis. This story follows the interactions of seven characters as they form an Adventurers' Club to cope with the death of one of the character's relatives.
2012_ENGL_04649700.pdf	2012	A collection of creative poetry including two poem sequences titled Prisoner and The Seams You Wear as well as two sections of individual poems focused around the exploration of various family dynamics with influences from Contemporary American poets.
2012_ENGL_04649701.pdf	2012	Inspired by an interest in folklore, biology, and ecocriticism, this collection of dramatic monologue poetry seeks to develop voices for animals native to North America by drawing on their unique biological and mythic characteristics. The complex issues surrounding the use of anthropomorphism in biology and literature are examined, with the conclusion that while anthropomorphic portrayals of animals are fundamentally fictitious and should not be treated as reality, they are useful to the extent that they translate animal behavior into something we can recognize and therefore better understand and sympathize with.
2012_ENGL_04649702.pdf	2012	The Mosaic House collects seven essays on diverse topics ranging from the role of theatre in the Terezin concentration camp to the problems of maturation and ambition for the band Phish to an interpretative history of breakfast cereals. Uniting all these myriad threads is a commitment to following the scattered, tangential ruminations dredged up from the experience of creative writing.
2012_ENGL_04649703.pdf	2012	A non-fiction narrative about life, death, imperialism, journalism, assassination, oil, and insurgency.
2012_ENGL_04649704.pdf	2012	A critical analysis of popular science rhetoric and academic science rhetoric, and how they both affect and reflect contemporary American society's perception of science.
2012_ENGL_04649705.pdf	2012	Born in Blood is a science fiction novel geared toward young adults. It takes place in an alternative, modern society driven by human instincts, repulses, and reaction. The public's newly found knowledge of people with extraordinary abilities stirs innate human fear, especially when it turns out the mutants' powers manifest in catastrophic and fatal ways. The story centers around one mysterious individual, a John Doe, who is found on a Chicago train of the sleeping dead. He is taken to a government run facility, the Citadel, where he is faced with more questions than answers and is forced to confront his own humanity.
2012_ENGL_04649706.pdf	2012	This paper combines feminist theory and literary criticism in order to reveal the patriarchal qualities of French feminist thought in the context of Margaret Atwood's Surfacing. Examining the narrator's complicated relationship with power, this paper employs Freudian psychoanalysis and Judith Butler's Foucauldian theory of power internalizations in order to analyze the ways in which the narrator's melancholic repression sequesters her from the Lacanian Symbolic and results in her reliance on a system of gender-based dichotomies. Viewing the world within strict binaries, the narrator unwittingly follows many of the regressive tenets of French feminist thought. Through a critique of the theories of Hélène Cixous, Luce Irigaray, and Julia Kristeva, this paper argues that the French feminist ideals of mysticism and irrationality within a constructed pre-cultural realm ultimately only act as an oppressive facet of the patriarchy. However, the narrator's inability to maintain a pure femininity culminates in her failure at French feminist thought, which, in accordance with Judith Halberstam's theory on the beneficial nature of failure, allows her to refuse patriarchal constructs of femininity and supplies her with the potential for an alternative feminist paradigm.
2012_ENGL_04649707.pdf	2012	This thesis uses literary theory and established forms of literary analysis to identify the components of Sesame Street that appeal to a child's literary identity. These literary structures establish an engaging relationship between the show and its viewers similar to the relationship between a text and a reader. This thesis also contains three original scripts written by the author to demonstrate the literary structures examined in the first two chapters.
2012_ENGL_04649708.pdf	2012	In rereading the classic texts from my childhood, I experienced anger, surprise, and curiosity.  I was angry that my beloved heroines did not live according to my 21st century definitions of fulfillment and self-empowerment, surprised that I never noticed the historical differences and restrictions before, and curious about what further investigation of women's opportunities during these times would reveal.  This curiosity is what led me to apply Adrienne Rich's definition of re-vision to Patricia Meyer Spacks' definition of rereading.  Reading additional literary theories and critics focused my approach to the texts and led me to the possibility that women could indeed achieve self-actualization during these times: more specifically, the possibility for the heroines of my childhood books to achieve self-actualization exists. In this project, I have attempted to discover what these protagonists need to achieve self-actualization, and I have placed my analysis of childhood heroines' ability to live to their highest potential (self-actualization) within the community of criticism surrounding these texts.  Incorporating the works of landmark feminists critics (for example, Gilbert and Gubar and Rich) as well as more recent feminists (Spacks), non-feminists (Moretti) and critics specific to each text, I have attempted to create a balanced and nuanced analysis of female self-actualization in Little Women, the Anne of Green Gables series, and the Little House books.  Previous feminist criticisms specific to each text favor exposing the restrictions of patriarchal society; in doing so, redemption or fulfillment for women is often overlooked or downplayed.  What I hope I have done is approach these topics not with a naive ignorance of the restrictions facing these heroines during the 19th century but with a guarded and informed optimism that the strong female characters of my childhood have the ability to find fulfillment in their lives.  By following the lives of three female protagonists, Jo March, Anne Shirley, and Laura Ingalls, I have reread these texts in order to better understand myself and my identification with these heroines.  A contemporary woman needs to be aware of the still-imposing structures of patriarchal society, and in order to be aware, a woman must also be informed about her past: as Adrienne Rich says, until we can understand the assumptions in which we are drenched we cannot know ourselves (190).  Understanding the assumptions built into the literature of my childhood, I can become not only a better reader, but also a better woman defining self-actualization in the twenty-first century.
2012_ENGL_04649710.pdf	2012	An investigation of how the host of The Daily Show is embodying a character of the past: the court jester. Using this lens, Stewart's role in the contemporary news media is contextualized and compared to traditional news organizations such as Fox News.
2012_ENGL_04649711.pdf	2012	The summer of 2011 began when the action blockbuster Fast Five opened to vast success, but was quickly punctuated by the resounding victory over al Qaeda through the American killing of Osama bin Laden. While critics noted the excessive collateral damage caused by the heroes of Fast Five, a unique analysis of their actions reveals how they utilize basic tenets of terrorism through a blending of postmodern film theory and terrorism studies. When juxtaposed with the film's marketing, a disconnect arises between the cultural fantasies audiences wish to experience, and their inability to see otherwise despite logistical reasoning. Placed alongside an analysis of President Obama's simplified rhetoric surrounding the death of bin Laden, a distinct vision emerges of a contemporary America as a society of willing mindlessness influenced by spectatorship throughout a multitude of cultural spheres.
2012_ENGL_04649712.pdf	2012	Bonnet fiction, the field of novels about the Amish that mimic that paperback or Harlequin romance, is quickly becoming an industry powerhouse in both Christian and popular literature.  But despite its popularity, little to no work has been done to understand how these texts function and how they represent their subjects, Amish women. This project explores the extent to which these novels function as either ethnography or romance novels by closely examining two novels: The Shunning by Beverly Lewis and Running Around (and Such) by Amish woman Linda Byler.  I argue that instead of fitting under either umbrella, bonnet fiction occupies a liminal space in the current academic discourse.
2012_ENGL_04649713.pdf	2012	This project involves the writing of creative pieces from the perspectives of those who knew Ernest Hemingway, as well as critical examinations of his life and work. The primary goal of this project is to examine Hemingway within the context of Michigan from a variety of critical and creative perspectives. The sources examined include the short stories and early fiction of Hemingway, critical essays, essays on literary theory, biographies, and discussions with scholars. This project makes the argument that Hemingway and northern Michigan have made an equal impact on one another, as well as highlighting various parts of Hemingway's life in Michigan.
2012_ENGL_04649714.pdf	2012	This Independent Study Thesis focuses on whether or not one should have faith, based on different recommendations by Albert Camus and Søren Kierkegaard, and investigates how Walker Percy’s own philosophies and novels answer that question. By focusing on Percy’s philosophy of faith, as well as the process of faith he presents in his novels, I will show how Percy speaks to both Camus and Kierkegaard by defending faith as a reasonable and fulfilling endeavor. Therefore, this thesis is separated into two sections. The first section overviews the debate between Albert Camus and Søren Kierkegaard, and how Walker Percy’s philosophy answers to both of them. The second part focuses on his novels, and how they relate and demonstrate the philosophical notions of Camus and Kierkegaard to lead readers through a process that ultimately suggests faith.
2012_ENGL_04649715.pdf	2012	Mating is a sitcom that takes place on a college campus, following six oddball students who try to find happiness within a place of misery and complication.
2012_ENGL_04649716.pdf	2012	The American Dream, which has roots in Arabic and Islamic culture, has been unavailable to Arabs and Muslims before 9/11.  After the terrorist attacks, the situation has only gotten worse, and Towelhead (Erian), Once in a Promised Land (Halaby), Amreeka (Dabis), First Writing Since (Hammad), and Usage (Charara) reflect this unrealized opportunity at achieving the American Dream.  These texts do so in a variety of ways, whether they are literary, poetic, or cinematic methods.
2012_ENGL_04649717.pdf	2012	As structural and post-structural writings proliferate, so do their themes and recurrent imagery: repetition (the very notion of recurrent imagery) and (dis/re)placement; linear (dis)courses; binaries between epistemic certainty/perspective, understanding/interpretation, and discursive interiority/exteriority; and the (a/de/re)centered structure. This study explores the labyrinths and its tropes of repetition, horizon, vertical motions of translation, and the search for/imagining of center. These elements are contextualized within Sir Richard F. Burton's translation of The Book of the Thousand Nights and a Night, Jorge Luis Borges's short story Et cetera, and Mark Z. Danielewski's novel House of Leaves. The application of labyrinthine methodology to these texts reveals that the labyrinth facilitates the blurring of binaries, breaking(-)through walls and boundaries and existing in the gappy spaces in between.
2012_ENGL_04649718.pdf	2012	This project tests the limits of the postfeminist, as it asks whether it is possible for socially deviant behavior like drug use to fit in with the feminist and postfeminist movements. I argue that white, upper to middle-class women turn to such behavior as a means of resisting oppressive societal constraints resulting from male-dominated society. In this project, I analyze three memoirs: How to Stop Time by Ann Marlowe, Whip Smart by Melissa Febos, and Lucky by Alice Sebold. The fact that each of these memoirists chooses to use heroin yet has a strong family background, is well educated, and has a high socioeconomic status is what groups them together in this project. To answer my research question, I examine each author's narrative form and the feminist overtones of each text, and discuss how they work together to present feminist or postfeminist implications of heroin use.
2012_ENGL_04649719.pdf	2012	My Independent Study is a memoir/collection of personal essays from the perspective of a funny quiet person. Various everyday occurrences are portrayed with exaggerated and humorous aspects.
2012_ENGL_04649720.pdf	2012	Many coming of age novels targeted toward a young adult audience present troubled protagonists who are struggling to cope with a devastating, traumatic loss. Despite the common use of this motif in texts targeted toward adolescent readers, few scholars have conducted investigations examining the connection between loss and maturity. As such, this thesis employs principles of trauma studies to explore the relationship between traumatic loss and identity formation in three young adult novels with male protagonists: J.D. Salinger's The Catcher in the Rye, Stephen Chboksy's The Perks of Being a Wallflower, and John Green's Looking for Alaska. The main chapters of this study explore the hypothesis that traumatic experience works to both complicate and induce the adolescent's movement toward a more mature, adult identity. The implications of this analysis suggest that adolescence itself can be read as a form of traumatic experience, and hence, as authors invoke trauma in young adult texts, they work toward a collective bearing of witness to the adolescent experience.
2012_ENGL_04649721.pdf	2012	I chose to write largely on three films--Rudy, Rocky, and Glory Road--because each excelled at portraying one of three major obstacles being overcome by the perseverance of well-rounded characters. I concluded my Independent Study with one sports documentary--Hoop Dreams--because unlike Hollywood sports movies; the film portrays real-life individuals that do not succeed.
2012_ENGL_04649722.pdf	2012	I studied cyborgs in a variety of science-fiction texts, noting and documenting the positive and negative effects that becoming a cyborg had upon humans.
2012_ENGL_04649724.pdf	2012	This study establishes a narrative that runs parallel with three Kerouac novels: On the Road, Visions of Cody, and The Dharma Bums. In this narrative is an examination of the role and significance that Neal Cassady and Gary Snyder provide as guide figures for Kerouac on his pilgrimage across the country, searching for spiritual salvation.
2012_ENGL_04649725.pdf	2012	The following Senior Independent Study titled Modern Day Slavery: A Literary and Pedagogical Liberation Movement for Human Sexual Trafficking as a First-Year Seminar serves to educate students on a topic that is not often discussed—human sexual trafficking. The project follows the outline of coursework typically seen in a First-Year Seminar (FYS) here at The College of Wooster, which the author has titled “Modern Day Slavery.” The course takes a literary approach to teaching human sexual trafficking by analyzing several texts, applying literary theory, and comparing the interpretations to the issue of human sexual trafficking. The texts include: the nonfictional slave narrative Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl by Harriet Jacobs, the poems “Notes From A Chicana ‘Coed’” by Bernice Zamora and “To Julia de Burgos” by Julia de Burgos, and the fictional memoir Sold by Patricia McCormick. The texts reveal how the perpetuation of oppression in a certain environment can enable a society to oppress different groups of people in new forms. Finally, the project observes how the anti-human trafficking organization called the A21 Campaign is currently working to combat human trafficking and helping women recover from their abuse. The main purposes of this seminar are to educate students on a worldwide women’s issue, develop writing skills, and learn how to critically read a text using literary theories.
2012_ENGL_04649726.pdf	2012	Wrecks on the Infobahn, is my attempt to compose an accurate and relatable depiction of the subculture Millennials have developed, under the monumental influence of the the Internet. The novelette focuses on African- American Millenials. The main characters are fictionalized versions of actual Millenials, whose words, ideas, and experiences are strategically dispersed throughout the work and combined with my own writing. This Independent Study is a fictional illustration of my analysis of my generation and race group. I believe that African-American Millenials are, a generation subgroup that can be fittingly described, as a coming of age generation, a generation of youth who have extended the coming of age process, (which is traditionally a time-sensitive procession) into a maintainable lifestyle.  Wrecks on the Infobahn, is an eclectic literary work, that portrays this concept by providing its readers with an angle-shifting view of four African American Millenials. The relationships showcased vary; they are one pair of sisters, and one pair of lovers. The pairs are strangers to one another. Through interviews and research, I was able to construct themes of content that seemed valuable to many members of my subject group. The novelette highlights the influence of the omnipresent internet on many African-American Millennial relationships, and identities.
2012_ENGL_04649727.pdf	2012	Structured as a collection of vignettes, Even Dusty Palms Dry Tears, recounts moments in the lives of four women as they struggle to deal with disillusionment and disappointment, in a society that continues to trivialize them by virtue of their sex. It explores women's roles and experiences, particularly in relation to men, and shows how these experiences affect their lives and the lives of their offspring. It also identifies ways in which this misogynistic thinking has become acceptable to women who, rather than supporting each other, adopt a mindset that criticizes and devalues their own sex, and as a result allow men to continue belittling them. There are oppressive situations particular to women, and these situations can only be combatted if women begin to take charge of their own lives, rather than allowing others to take care of them. It is important that Jamaican women not only prove themselves worthy of respect, but also demand said respect.
2011_ENGL_04649731.pdf	2011	What emotional and physical experiences do individuals undergo when reading? Do individuals react to a text as they react to others in a social situation? The current study is an interdisciplinary exploration of how and why individuals become engaged with and engrossed in certain texts. Specifically, the study examines empathy and narrative point-of-view in relation to an individual's emotional and physical experience while reading.  Participants read one of three texts, differing in narrative point-of-view but recounting the same story. After reading their assigned text, participants completed an empathy scale, personality inventory, and questionnaire about their reactions. Additionally, participants' blood pressure and heart rates were measured before and after reading.  A Pearson's correlation revealed no significant difference in participants' physiological change between textual conditions, and no significant relationship between empathy and physical reaction to a text.  Variables such as absorption, narrator identification, and emotion did appear to influence reading experiences, and these experiences differed depending on textual condition. The evidenced relationships between these variables suggest that readers may undergo para-social interactions through narrator identification and absorption in a textual world.  The joint reader and text influences of reading experiences observed in this study also provide support for social reader response theory.
2011_ENGL_04649732.pdf	2011	An exploration of how modern fantasy revisions of classic historical legends can help reconstruct problematic ideologies, particularly regarding gender roles, feminism, and religious tolerance.
2011_ENGL_04649733.pdf	2011	My I.S. compares three novels by Isabel Allende: The House of the Spirits, Daughter of Fortune, and Portrait in Sepia. Allende has said that she uses her fiction to critique and therefore improve her society and to give voice to those who are traditionally silenced. In my thesis, I examine the romantic relationships portrayed in each of these novels to see how they support Allende's social critique of gender inequality and social hierarchies based on class and ethnicity. As a whole, these three novels propose egalitarian romantic relationships that give women more power and allow for more equality between people of different social classes and ethnicities.
2011_ENGL_04649734.pdf	2011	A gendered examination of how women in the 19th century could achieve autonomy through the ownership of space and financial independence as seen through Charlotte BrontÃ«'s  Villette  and Anne BrontÃ«'s  The Tenant of Wildfell Hall.
2011_ENGL_04649736.pdf	2011	I wrote a children's novel about two kids who suspect that their new neighbor might be the reincarnation of King Arthur.
2011_ENGL_04649737.pdf	2011	My project explores the construction of the ideal woman in nineteenth-century women's literature and contemporary chick lit. The texts I examine are Pride and Prejudice, Jane Eyre, The House of Mirth, Bridget Jones's Diary, Sex and the City, The Secret Dreamworld of a Shopaholic, and The Devil Wears Prada. I investigate how female characters in these works construct their ideal selves in response to mass cultural standards as well as their own personal definitions of what it means to be  ideal.  I examine these concepts mainly through the lenses of postfeminism, gender studies, and post-structuralism.
2011_ENGL_04649738.pdf	2011	An Echo of an Echo is a collection of four short stories, titled  You are at risk., For Sure, All is Full of Love, and Are You Lonesome Tonight?. The stories explore loss, loneliness, and finding one's place in the world as the characters face overwhelming challenges, and change and grow to cope with them.
2011_ENGL_04649739.pdf	2011	Currently, southern Louisiana faces rapid coastal erosion due to the development of the oil industry, sea level rise, and salt-water intrusion that kills and washes away protective vegetation. Along with these environmental disasters, the communities on Louisiana's islands face cultural erosion as their land changes, erodes, and they are forced to move.Furthermore, as the land changes, the literature that is based on those islands are severely affected.  In analyzing the importance of the environment and cultural production in Kate Chopin's  The Awakening,  Lafcadio Hearn's  Chita: A Memory of Last Island,  and stories I've collected from the Biloxi-Chitimacha chief on the Isle de Jean Charles, I argue how important is it to protect both the stories and the land itself.
2011_ENGL_04649740.pdf	2011	My IS is a collection of poetry. It is a multi-story work that have several characters, each with their own stories to tell and each written using a different form of poetry.
2011_ENGL_04649741.pdf	2011	Next to Nothing is a short novel that documents a few months in the life of Olivia Spencer, a second semester high school senior living outside of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Spurred by an innocuous question that she overthinks, Olivia enters into a relationship with Mike, a boy she doesn't know very well. Between the strain Mike puts on her connection with her best friend Hannah, the painful process of deciding colleges, and the presence of an obnoxious and unavoidable frenemy, Olivia soon finds herself in over her head and virtually alone, especially when she experiences a pregnancy scare shortly after agreeing to have sex with Mike.
2011_ENGL_04649742.pdf	2011	This Independent Study thesis is on metaphor. It describes first how metaphor can semantically mean, then argues that it can create meaning, and finally argues that poetry, because it is inherently metaphorical, is a breeding ground for meaning. Following the philosophy chapters are forty-four poems that act as a sort of artistic argumentation for the chapters preceding them.
2011_ENGL_04649743.pdf	2011	A discussion of the interaction between literature addressing death and the cultural treatment of death.
2011_ENGL_04649744.pdf	2011	My Independent Study explores how cultural shifts and technological advances have changed the way people read and how they have impacted the American book publishing industry.  I analyze the history of publishing and predict the future of the book.
2011_ENGL_04649745.pdf	2011	In this thesis I analyze the conflation of reality and fantasy in three films: A Beautiful Mind, Requiem for a Dream, and Pan's Labyrinth.
2011_ENGL_04649747.pdf	2011	A novella relating a teenage girl's decision to leave her mother behind in New York and travel to Maine to visit her uncle, a writer.
2011_ENGL_04649749.pdf	2011	An exploration of the cultural evolution of fairy tales from the literary tales, to Disney films to modern adaptations. An examination of the different ways in which themes, present in the literary fairy tales, were restricted in the Disney popular culture in such a way that it inspired the writing of new tales as a form of literary revolution.
2011_ENGL_04649752.pdf	2011	An in depth analysis of four fairy tale favorites with a concentration in the dark and subversive elements that are often times overlooked, my I.S. is also a defense of fairy tales for a new universal audience: including adults.
2010_ENGL_04649761.pdf	2010	This project explores four printed Christmas stories and the filmic adaptations of each. The eight selections show a broad range of English-language Christmas texts, as they cover a century-long time span, a variety of genres, and several geographic locations. This project focuses in particular on the ways in which Christmas memories are constructed using transformation language, hospitality as a theme, alternate realities, and humor in these works. By examining these four elements, we can see that authors and filmmakers are relaying the message that every memory can be considered a present past, or, memory is a phenomenon directly related to the present. Each of these memories of the past focused on or around Christmas ultimately shows how characters are currently beginning to see and understand their larger worlds. In other words, authors and filmmakers are able to show how an individual's past influences so much of the present, especially in combination with various filmic techniques. First, I analyze Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol in conjunction with the Clive Donner's filmic adaptation. A Christmas Carol, which is full of transformation language, can in fact be seen as the beginning of the Christmas genre of literature. This novel arguably made it possible for the rest of the works discussed in this project to exist. The next text analyzed in this project is James Joyce's short story The Dead alongside its John Houston filmic adaptation. This story considers Christmas from a different vantage point and focuses on hospitality as one major theme. Utilizing flashbacks, The Dead shows how Christmas does not always provide the joy that it provides for many, but instead can conjure up unhappy memories. It is much darker than the rest of the works. The next text that I discuss is Phillip van Doren Stern's The Greatest Gift. Van 5 Doren Stern's short story was later adapted into the holiday classic It's a Wonderful Life. This text is the first American work that I examine, as I start with one of the foundational Christmas texts and progress chronologically through some of the more popular Christmas texts. This text is also a very sentimental story and shares plot devices with A Christmas Carol, such as alternate realities and supernatural beings influencing major transformations in the main characters. The final texts that this project will address are Jean Shepherd's In God We Trust: All Others Pay Cash, a collection of short stories, and Bob Clark's later film version A Christmas Story. This introduces a more modern edge to the Christmas theme, along with adding a great deal of humorous elements. The use of satire and comedy can link to the present past as it may indicate that the author or filmmaker uses the events happening to fictional characters to critique what is currently going on in their larger worlds. Finally, as readers and viewers, we have different memories of how our families celebrated holidays when we were children, and therefore different notions of what tradition means. As critics Leigh Radford and Renee C. Romano state about these representations of the past and their relevance to the present, they can be mobilized to serve partisan purposes; they can be commercialized for the sake of tourism; they can shape a nation's sense of identity, build hegemony, or serve to shore up the political interests of a state and they can certainly influence the ways in which people understand their world (xxi). I have learned that these elements of cultural memory impact texts in many ways, and the present and past are permanently linked.
2009_ENGL_04649778.pdf	2009	With this resource for high school teachers, I argue that banning The Bluest Eye in an 11th and 12th grade Advanced Placement setting is an unproductive way to guide the student learning process; banning this novel at that time is especially detrimental because it takes away from a student_s right to learn how to question and respond to complex situations that plague reality. If we do not teach students this book or others like it, which ultimately force individuals to leave their comfort zones, how will they expand their minds and learn to become independent thinkers? Many teachers feel that they do not have enough support to justify the teaching of banned books (Henly 14). This Independent Study project is, again, a resource itself, and it illustrates the vast amount of tools there are to help guide this process. It is possible, then, to teach controversial literature, giving students the right to equal educational opportunities.  Part One of this project is my literature review. I paraphrase much of what already has been researched on the history of censorship and banning and the various pieces of literature that have been banned throughout history. I investigate cases from a variety of schools throughout the United States, showing that banning is not an isolated process; it happens everywhere. Examining the information that is already available allows me to show what my project adds to both the literary and educational fields. I briefly touch on classic texts such as Ulysses by James Joyce and work toward more contemporary texts such as I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings by Maya Angelou. I incorporate these banning cases, along with a discussion on the legalities of banning in order to show the 2  wide range of banning incidents that have occurred and to expose their potentially detrimental effects on the student learning process. Part Two is a section of three local teachers_ responses to banning as well as other documented voices of teachers who have handled situations with banned books. Part Three is my reader-response section. I formulate my own response to Toni Morrison's novel, The Bluest Eye, while incorporating the responses of 12th grade A.P. English students who currently attend my high school alma mater, Chaney High School in Youngstown, Ohio. By analyzing the novel, I show the reasoning behind the methodologies used within my lesson plan on The Bluest Eye. Finally, Part Four is my section on teaching The Bluest Eye. I use the aforementioned methods with students at Chaney High School, allowing me to put my overall argument into a practical situation.
2005_ENGL_04774344.pdf	2005	This thesis examines the development of educational and occupational aspirations and expectations among African American youths in Benton Harbor, Michigan. The investigation begins with a review of previous research on educational and occupational aspirations and expectations among African American youth; the review is followed by a discussion of theoretical explanations of these research findings, which includes perspectives on inequality, symbolic interactionism, and individual and cultural causes of leveled aspirations and expectations. I then present the methodological description of my qualitative study and film project on 19 youths from Benton Harbor as well as a critical statement that explores the various modes of documentary representation, placing my own documentary within the larger body of non-fiction film texts. Finally, I submit To Get a Voice Heard (2005), a documentary I filmed and produced in response to my research in Benton Harbor.
2012_ENGL_04856685.pdf	2012	The Marshallese culture is rich in heritage and unusual manit (customs). Nearly everything — from the language to food, belief in black magic and manner of dress — is radically different from virtually everything we’re accustomed to in the U.S. Their Islands are changing, however, thanks in part to the often-negative impact our military has made on the population. This creative non-fiction magazine, entitled Marshallese Time, takes the reader through all aspects of life in the Marshall Islands, from the perspective of an uprooted American civilian.
2013_ENGL_04857239.pdf	2013	I'm disappointed by Ohio's outdoor magazines—its only publications are essentially long, boring tourism pamphlets packed with Amish furniture advertisements. So I decided to create Switchbacks, a fun, smart outdoor recreation magazine for Ohio. For inspiration, I reviewed dozens of outdoor magazines such as Rock & Ice, Outside, and Dirt Rag. Then I traveled, interviewed people, wrote articles, and designed the entire magazine by myself. After the physical copy was ready to print, I set up a supplemental website where I posted my finished material. Switchbacks turned out well. It's a sleek, professional publication with interesting stories and good writing. I think I've done justice to the state of Ohio.
2014_ENGL_05287956.pdf	2014	“Voices from the Woods: Classic Fairy Tales Revisited and Revised” is a dual critical/creative project that analyzes the development and role of Western fairy tales in society and culture. The critical portion includes an outline of the history of the fairy tale genre and an analysis of a series of tropes and patterns found within the genre concerning the representation of women and girls in the tales, especially regarding beauty, power, goodness, and agency. The creative portion of the project applies a variety of critical and literary theories to eight specific fairy tales (“Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs”, “Little Red Riding Hood”, “Bluebeard”, “Hansel and Gretel”, “Rumpelstiltskin”, “Rapunzel”, “The Goose-Girl”, and “The Little Mermaid”) via creative reinterpretation of the tales through performance and short stories. These retellings focus primarily on dismantling the problematic tropes discussed in the critical portion and creating stories that portray a more diverse and complex collection of women.
2014_ENGL_05333511.pdf	2014	A collection of humorous personal essays written in an effort to close the cognitive gab between highly functioning and cognitively delayed persons; this project contains a critical introduction that focuses on the genre of the personal essay as well as my writing process and deliberate choices made when constructing this Independent Study; six short essays chronicling my time working at a residential camp for people with disabilities, and an epilogue that allows readers to contrast the development of my views from the beginning of the summer to the end.
2014_ENGL_05334434.pdf	2014	In my Senior Independent Study, written in the form of a travel memoir, I discuss and attempt to identify the Cuban identity based off of my own experiences after studying abroad in Havana, Cuba. From a first person perspective, I was able to document my experiences but also make observations about the new world I was living in and the people I met. In hopes of discovering the Cuban identity, I discovered that there is no true single Cuban identity. Instead, I discovered that Cuba’s identity is multifaceted and ever-changing. Through exposure to this other world, I was able to make observations as an outsider while documenting my own firsthand experiences. This allowed for greater observations to be made about Cuba since I was experiencing it myself. Not only was I experiencing Cuba but I was making memories with people I had met which enriched my experiences and also influenced my perspective on the country. Much of my memoir is about these personal experiences and how I use my stories to explain Cuba and shed light on aspects of this country that I have been afforded the opportunity to see and observe. These have highly effected my personal opinions on the country and thus my opinions on American-Cuban relations.
2014_ENGL_05338754.pdf	2014	This project is a collection of personal essays written within the genre of nature writing and chronicles the parallel experiences of house construction and a personal battle with an eating disorder. These essays are structured by the seasons of the year beginning in spring and ending in winter. The writing explores themes of home, identity, and healing.
2014_ENGL_05350761.pdf	2014	This study examines the complex cognitive effects of comedy on audience members through literary and psychological theory. Based primarily on Bruce McConachie's audience response theory, this study examines the metacognitive elements of the comedy in A Midsummer Night's Dream by William Shakespeare, The Importance of Being Earnest by Oscar Wilde, and Crimes of the Heart by Beth Henley. In order to prove that comedy is not intellectually inferior to other genres just because it is humorous, as its current societal stigma implies, each chapter analyzes the complex layers behind the humor in each play. Metacognition appears in each play in various forms in order to provide audience members with new understandings of familiar concepts including: metatheatrics and metacomedy in Midsummer, metatextuality in Earnest, and a metacognitive paradox in Crimes. Ultimately the complex and sophisticated nature of the cognitive processes that comedy stimulates in audiences debunk current societal stigmas that prevent comedy from appearing more frequently in academic settings.
2014_ENGL_05352122.pdf	2014	My Independent Study project is a collection of personal, humorous essays titled I Should Google That: A Collection of Essays. My project is split up into two sections; the first half is creative, and the second half is a critical reflection. The creative half is my collection of essays, which I wrote about my opinions and life experiences. In the second half, the critical reflection, I relate the essays I wrote to the authors who inspired me, including: David Sedaris, Sarah Vowell, David Foster Wallace, Sloane Crosley, and Nora Ephron.
2014_ENGL_05352392.pdf	2014	This thesis has two major objectives: (1) To analyze the problematic nature of stereotypical gender portrayals in realistic YA novels directed at heterosexual and queer young men and women and (2) to encourage these novels and problematic gender issues to be integrated into instruction in a classroom setting. These popularly read YA novels tend to portray gender in two-dimensional ways, causing the autonomy of the characters to be limited and young readers of the novels to adopt conventions without question. Because these gender issues are often masked in the novels by an external traumatic event in the plot, readers are not encouraged to think critically about the gender portrayals of characters. By analyzing novels written for young women: The Truth about Forever by Sarah Dessen, Thirteen Reasons Why by Jay Asher, and The Fault in Our Stars by John Green; novels written for young men: Skate by Michael Harmon, Twisted by Laurie Anderson, and The Perks of Being a Wallflower by Stephen Chbosky; and novels written for a LGBT+ audience: Will Grayson, Will Grayson by John Green and David Levithan, Keeping You a Secret by Julie Ann Peters, and Rainbow Boys by Alex Sanchez; I identify several patterns of problematic stereotypical gender portrayals. I conclude that, while some of the novels allow a reader to question characters’ portrayals of gender, in many instances problematic representations are encouraged. In my conclusion, I delineate a possible method of introducing these ideas into a classroom unit, allowing students to read critically and identify the problematic nature of the novels they read in their free time. 
2014_ENGL_05357171.pdf	2014	My thesis critiques traditional models of the hero’s journey in young adult fantasy literature that are based upon masculinist definitions of heroism. I argue that such models need to be more inclusive to account for non-male experiences. Chapter One is a feminist critique of patriarchal assumptions within conventional models, including Joseph Campbell’s monomyth. Chapter Two considers the negative consequences of models of the hero’s journey that are grounded in essentialist beliefs, with Lloyd Alexander’s Chronicles of Prydain series as an example. My final chapter argues that Alison Croggon’s Books of Pellinor series successfully envisions a hero who is female and follows the same basic arc of the hero’s journey, with some important revisions to the traditional model. My research suggests essentialist models of the hero’s journey should be replaced with inclusive frameworks of heroism that can apply to a person of any sex or gender—in fantasy literature and beyond.
2014_ENGL_05361907.pdf	2014	This project is a collection of short stories investigating and analyzing the desegregation of Boston Public Schools ranging from the 1970s to the present. By studying the desegregation of Boston Public Schools, I acknowledge the systematic structures placed on the school systems in order to encourage the integration of classrooms. Inside of this text is an introduction to the Boston Busing Crisis, a collection of five fictional short stories, and a Reader-Response, Gender Studies, and New Historicist analysis. This collection argues that the structural changes in Boston focusing on desegregation that were established nearly forty years ago did not ease racial tensions. In fact, the busing system damaged relationships between neighborhoods to the extent that there has been no racial progress in Boston.
2014_ENGL_05366834.pdf	2014	This project looks at “A Good Man Is Hard To Find” by Flannery O’Connor, “John Redding Goes To Sea” by Zora Neale Hurston, and “The Sky Is Gray” by Ernest J. Gaines to examine the Southern Gothic genre, its conceptions of family, and the role of religion in creating themes, symbols, and images. The setting of the Southern United States is examined through the problems pointed out by the use of the Southern Gothic and the changes these authors purport at the level of family construction and societal structures. The authors’ own biographies and their religious beliefs are used to inform analyses of each story that supports the necessity of change within Southern society and to define the solutions each author provides for moving away from the violence of the past and present.
2014_ENGL_05366959.pdf	2014	This Independent Study looks into how three parents of children with autism write about their experiences that they have had because of this autism. Through this, ethical concerns are also questioned.
2014_ENGL_05366980.pdf	2014	This research project seeks to discover how the Lost Boys of Sudan negotiate individual and communal identities following resettlement to the United States through language and narrative. I performed close readings of three memoirs written by Lost Boys of Sudan, including What is the What: The Autobiography of Valentino Achak Deng, a novel by Dave Eggers, God Grew Tired of Us by John Bul Dau, and Running for My Life by Lopez Lomong. In addition, I interviewed four Lost Boys to gain a sense of their spontaneous, private responses to questions of culture, identity, and storytelling. Drawing on Homi Bhabha’s concept of “unhomely” and Clifford Geertz’s “stratigraphic layers of culture,” I conclude that as the Lost Boys encounter new cultural and physical homes, their public and private stories reflect the hybrid space between their past and present identities. This research brings to light the difficulties that the Lost Boys of Sudan, as a community and as individuals, continue to face as they redefine the meaning of belonging in both the United States and South Sudan.
2014_ENGL_05367854.pdf	2014	This project examines the British usage of the literary Gypsy trope. Through historical background and an application of Edward Said's Orientalism, this project explores the racial, ethnic, and cultural prejudice aimed at Gypsy groups that has been implemented in British literature. Using Aphra Behn's The Rover, Charlotte Brontë's Jane Eyre, and D.H. Lawrence's The Virgin and the Gipsy, this project critiques the literary representations of Gypsies through the application of masquerade by female characters. Finally, this project discusses how and why this accepted literary trope is harmful both in and outside of literature.
2014_ENGL_05372929.pdf	2014	The aspirations of this project are best captured by a question: how does one understand oneself? To answer this question, I task myself with an investigation into the nature of what it means to be a self. In broad strokes, my argument follows: I first claim that being a self requires that a thing have the capacity to understand itself as someone amongst others in the world. To understand oneself then, I suggest, is the result of ascribing structure, order, and meaning to one's past experiences, thereby transmuting each into a discrete and intelligible narrative event. Understanding oneself thus amounts to engaging in structured reflection upon one's past experiences, or intentionally representing past experiences as discrete and narrativally structured events.But individuals are not static creatures—they are rather constantly adapting to new experiences. I consequently suggest that individuals are apt to engage in the re-interpretation of past experiences—to be a self is therefore the result of engaging in a self-interpretive process, structured with a beginning, middle, and end, wherein the end changes relative to the point in time of the individual's reflection. This represents an ever-shifting teleologically based understanding of what it is to be a self. Selfhood thus constitutes a fluid and ongoing process, apt to change with each re-interpretation upon the introduction of new experiences. In this manner, each new point of reflection signals a new narrative ending point.Throughout the course of this project, I use Stephen Dedalus in James Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man as a case study to illustrate and test my proposed theory of a narratival account selfhood—the textually recorded changes of Stephen's self-growth, I suggest, illuminate how, in the case of Joycean epiphany, recognition of oneself can actively change through re-interpretation of past experiences. As I argue through Stephen's own story, however, there exists the danger of scripting oneself, which wrongly self-determines future actions based on one's past. As selfhood is the product of reflection on the past, I argue against scripting oneself on the grounds that it signals a misapprehension of oneself as a process. Instead, being a self requires that one acknowledges one's self-duty as an autonomous agent; to script oneself is, in contrast, to engage in servility to one's script, thereby ignoring one's self-duty as an autonomous agent.
2014_ENGL_05373755.pdf	2014	Este estudio independiente es una investigación comparativa del periodismo contemporáneo en España y los Estados Unidos. Para realizar mi estudio, he analizado 10 ejemplares de The New York Times y 10 ejemplares de El País que, en total asciende a 120 artículos. El propósito de este estudio es doble. En primer lugar, he intentado dar una percepción inicial en la territorio desconocido del periodismo español. Si hay algo escrito sobre el periodismo español, no hay mucho, y he realizado este estudio con la meta de contribuir información sobre España a la conversación global del periodismo. El otro propósito de este análisis es encontrar razones posibles para explicar las tendencias en mis datos. Aunque no es posible encontrar conclusiones definitivas de sólo 10 ediciones de cada periódico, conjeturo en los factores culturales que contribuyen a mis resultados. En esta investigación, estudio y comparo los temas de los artículos, las fuentes en los artículos, la estructura de los artículos y el contenido de los artículos.This independent study is a comparative investigation of contemporary journalism from Spain and the United States. To conduct my study, I have analyzed 10 issues of The New York Times ad 10 issues of El País, which amounts to 120 articles. The purpose of this study is twofold. Firstly, I have attempted to provide some initial insight into the uncharted territory of Spanish journalism. If there is literature about Spanish journalism, there is very little, and I have conducted a study with the intention of contributing information about Spain to the global conversation about journalism. The other purpose of this analysis is to find possible reasons to explain the trends that I found in my data. While it is impossible to determine definitive conclusions with only 10 issues of each newspaper, I hypothesize about the cultural factors that contribute to my results. In this investigation, I study and compare the subjects of articles, the sources used in articles, the article structures and the content of the articles.
2014_ENGL_05374029.pdf	2014	At the turn of the twentieth century, Chicago’s residents were deeply concerned with understanding the city’s perceived chaos. For many Americans, Chicago stood for the best and the worst of urban life simultaneously, and many of the public conversations at this time can be seen as responses to this seeming contradiction. This essay compares Theodore Dreiser’s seminal naturalist novel Sister Carrie and the rhetoric of Chicago’s labor unions as examples of the American response to the problems of urban modernity. In many ways, Dreiser and organized labor’s depictions of the city were similar: they both saw it as a force growing beyond human control and they recognized the importance of class in navigating the city. However, Dreiser saw Chicago as a powerful entity beyond the comprehension of its residents, while labor leaders believed the city’s power was a construction of industrial capitalism. While Dreiser saw class identity as weakening individuals, labor saw it as a source of strength. Ultimately, both agreed that the problems of urban life would be resolved and Chicago would become a more perfect city.
2014_ENGL_05374303.pdf	2014	Categorizing and analyzing Peter and Wendy, by J.M. Barrie, as a myth-tale allows for a more complete reading of the complex text and partially explains its popularity and prominence within past and contemporary societies. Utilizing fairytale scholars, such as Marie-Louis von Franz, and mythological analysts, such as Maureen Murdock, along with C.G. Jung’s psychoanalytical theory of archetypes (which applies to both fairytale and myth), reveals how Peter and Wendy contains components of both genres, and is a masterfully hybridized text. Additionally, the fairytale components often camouflage the more mature and mythic elements of the tale. This reading reveals how Barrie relies heavily on archetypes, both archetypal characters and events, which are found universally in stories and are deeply rooted in the unconscious. Hence, Barrie’s use of archetypes allows him to form a more universally applicable story, while the fairytale elements make the deep psychological truths, the mythic components, entertaining and more palatable and appealing for readers. Reading specifically for archetypes reveals how Peter is a death figure, Captain Hook is Peter’s shadow (and the shadow of the collective unconscious), and Wendy is the true heroine of the text.
2014_ENGL_05376621.pdf	2014	This Independent Study Thesis is a hybrid collection of poetry and personal essays examining life in poverty. The 16 pieces in this collection reflect different aspects of poverty from a personal perspective, ranging from homelessness to drug abuse. The goal of this collection is to give voice to stories that are often forgotten in discourse on poverty and give a human aspect to the study of the underclass.
2015_ENGL_06778763.pdf	2015	The punishment of serving time assigned to male prisoners extends beyond the criminals to their partners. The loved ones of inmates are metaphorically jailed because they too must wait the length of the sentence. The waiting room in which these women visit their men in prison is comparable to the figurative waiting room they also experience. This research debunks traditional connotations of the concepts of freedom and captivity and enlarges their scope of meaning to include both physical and metaphorical implications. Specifically, this study focuses on three primary sources: two memoirs entitled The Prisoner’s Wife by Asha Bandele, and Visiting Life: Women Doing Time on the Outside by Bridget Kinsella, and the BBC television drama Prisoners’ Wives. This project is an analysis of the depictions of prison and internment in these works as well as the discontinuities between nonfictional and fictional genres. Additionally, this comparison spreads to the limitations and advantages of the print and filmic mediums. Through a defamiliarization lens, this work ultimately allows me to coin the term “self-prisonization,” which encases both representational and literal forms of imprisonment and applies to each primary source in a unique and nuanced manner.
2015_ENGL_06779627.pdf	2015	This Independent Study is a historical fiction novella, written to be the travel journal of Bram Stoker (the author of Dracula) as he travels in Romania to research a sequel examining the historical figure he based the Count on, Vlad the Impaler. It takes place in the summer of 1900, shortly before a period of political turmoil in Romania. During his travels, Bram meets Gheorghe Cantacuzino, the current prime minister of Romania, who will lose power only a few weeks after this novella. He will also spend most of his time with Mr. Wallach, the owner of the hotel he is staying at in Bucharest and the only English speaker he encounters. In the process of his research, Bram learns very quickly that Vlad, the man, the myth, and the monster is not as simple as he originally thought.
2015_ENGL_06787354.pdf	2015	By designing an undergraduate course syllabus and teaching manual for “Literature of Imprisonment: Creativity and Constraint,” I demonstrate that college professors can best educate students about the United States Prison System by employing strategies that bell hooks considers part of an education that is the practice of freedom through discourse. I agree with the following comment by hooks in Teaching to Transgress:  Education as the Practice of Freedom:  “The classroom remains the most radical space of possibility in the academy. I celebrate teaching that enables transgressions — a movement against and beyond boundaries. It is that movement which makes education the practice of freedom” (12). My syllabus and manual do not suppress or deny diversity; they exhibit the type of boundary breaking hooks mentions by helping students understand that writing by such figures as imprisoned civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. can and should at once be a way to communicate ideas about race, class, and religion and to voice strong opinions about those ideas.  Likewise, I break boundaries through this class by using theorists such as Michel Foucault and Jeremy Bentham to teach that imprisonment creates a sense of empowerment and disempowerment at the same time. In my course, students delve in to these subjects by looking at prison literature, art, and film. My pedagogical approach mirrors hooks’, too, because I value creating passion and pleasure in the classroom, which makes me consider not only students and teachers’ minds, but their bodies and spirits as well. And, lastly, future graduate students will be adequately prepared by my diverse, interdisciplinary undergraduate course because it encourages them to be quite self-directed and to make many connections to current issues. 
2015_ENGL_06852671.pdf	2015	This is an analysis of the contemporary heroes within television today. The argument of this thesis is that violence acted out by contemporary heroes is justified because it produces justice at the end of the day. The specific violent contemporary heroes analyzed are Jax Teller in FX's Sons of Anarchy and Dexter Morgan in Showtime's Dexter.
2015_ENGL_06879341.pdf	2015	An exploration of how the Coen brothers challenge classical genre theory and postmodern theory in film. This thesis analyzes Fargo, Barton Fink, and The Big Lebowski so as to further the argument that the Coen brothers create their films in a unique and specific way.
2015_ENGL_06880098.pdf	2015	This Independent Study examines the ways in which the uncanny female double is implemented in modern film. Specifically analyzing Robert Altman’s 3 Women (1976), David Lynch’s Mulholland Drive (2001), and Ingmar Bergman’s Persona (1966), this project evaluates themes of doubling, repressed identities, and fragmented narrative structures that emerge in these “uncanny” films, which are undeniably troubling and confusing.
2015_ENGL_06880312.pdf	2015	This project examines the presence of narrative agency in literature by Native American Authors. The discourse surrounding Native American Literature is fraught with problematic assumptions regarding the meaning and purpose of the texts. Scholars often project an exclusively indigenous meaning onto works by American Indians, assuming their content and style to be directly representative of their authors' cultural heritage. In my project, I analyze Dead Voices by Gerald Vizenor, Ceremony by Leslie Marmon Silko, as well as In the Presence of the Sun and The Way to Rainy Moutain by N Scott Momaday, identifying instances in which characters use stories and speech to influence change. Representations of narrative agency across these novels illustrate ways in which storytelling can be used--to confront oppression directly, form bonds with the past and facilitate action in the present, to create and redefine realities, and ultimately to empower the storyteller to reclaim control of their own story from the hands of outside forces, or even the reader herself.
2015_ENGL_06880409.pdf	2015	This thesis examines British women’s political participation within the official community in India between 1858 and 1914. Using memsahibs’ personal writings, literature, and household guides, this thesis argues that British women’s social, domestic, and literary roles allowed them to enter into the political world of the Raj and add their views to discussions about British imperialism and the future of Britain’s presence in India. The stereotype of memsahibs as ignorant of India and Indian culture is false. They were active agents of the Empire. British women encountered politics on a daily basis in their conversations with Indian servants, their husbands, Indian officials, and British civil servants. Novelists such as Alice Perrin and Flora Annie Steel drew from their experiences in India and helped shape imperial literary discourses about the Raj, alongside Rudyard Kipling. As mistresses of the household, memsahibs had the political task of establishing and maintaining Englishness in the home through controlling their servants, selecting menus, managing household accounts, and raising future empire builders. Memsahibs followed their husbands to India, but they took their title of respect and made it into an identity. They found their own voices and means of political expression within the Raj.
2015_ENGL_07833955.pdf	2015	This project is a creative exploration of modern film review. I begin by tracing the evolution of film criticism from its humble beginnings up through the present day. I note the various changes in the film industry that have created significant shifts in the world of film criticism. I explore the rise and fall of the film critic as the tastemaker and the ways in which the cultural hierarchy of high, middle, and lowbrow has shaped film criticism through the century. I explain the modern film critic as one who creates a fictional persona to critique works in the form of video reviews, using several examples of critics I admire. I conclude the project with my own exploration of the critic as character; I wrote three scripts reviewing film adaptations of Philip K. Dick's stories We Can Remember It For You Wholesale, A Scanner Darkly, and Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
2016_ENGL_08158402.pdf	2016	By examining articles by Butler and Squire, I argue that a new designation of poetry is needed to normalize disability for young adults (ages 17-30) by acknowledging that expectations of disability create the performance of disability. My work is useful in literature studies at the high school level because it explores the tension between Self, Body, and society to address the concept of authentic self and community identity.
2016_ENGL_08345683.pdf	2016	There is little to no research on the folklore of the Basques, and what little that has been done is outdated. The Basques are a people that have long intrigued anthropologists, linguists, geneticists, and folklorists. Previous research has attempted to find an origin of the Basque language, and has acknowledged the genetic uniqueness of the Basques and attempted to discover why. The folklore of the Basques was collected almost a century ago and there are no contemporary collections of current Basque folklore. I have attempted to solve this problem by contributing to the literature on the folklore of the Basques. To do this, I interviewed nine women in the Basque community in Idaho about the folklore that is still celebrated today. I found that festivals, religious beliefs, music, stories (family stories, songs, improvised poetry called bertsolaritza, and dance), and the Basque language are the instruments of contemporary folklore of the Boise Basques. This paper introduces the term folklore, provides an overview of the Basques in Spain and the Basques in Idaho, and an analysis of the folklore and how it contributes to the creation of the Basque-American identity. It is the first step to creating a new collection of folklore and understanding the Basque people as the unique people they are.
2016_ENGL_08386728.pdf	2016	As a child, I was always taught to be a dainty young lady. I can recall countless instances of instruction from my elders on what to wear, what to say and how to carry myself overall in order to project an appropriate image to the world. Trusting in their words, I never questioned these ideals and in fact still hold some of them very dear to my heart even today. However, as I grew older and became influenced by external factors like pop culture, I slowly began to stray away from the traditions that had been ingrained in me as a child. When I entered college, I had complete autonomy over my body and was unafraid to venture into this new realm of uninhibited self-presentation. Throughout college, I wore different, sometimes more revealing, clothing and took complete advantage of presenting myself in the way that I saw fit. I cannot deny though that there were times when I felt genuinely conflicted. There were times when I questioned my appearance and seriously deliberated about whether I should go in accordance with the teachings of my family or simply move forward in my evolution. Looking back as a senior and aspiring journalist, I am still very much interested in the representation of the black female body. There is a specific stigma attached to being an African American woman. I want the United States to be a place where I can comfortably exhibit my sexuality and body without feeling stigmatized. While there has been some progress, black women have yet to be liberated from the sexual stereotypes that have hindered their growth and prevented them from being embraced by not just white but all of society.It is this journey in my thinking that has led to my Independent Study thesis. My research delves into both sides of a sexuality binary that exists for modern day black women. These sides, which I have identified as black women either being portrayed as 1) sexually conservative or 2) extremely hypersexual, ultimately limit the way black women are able to share their sexuality with the world. Such confinement prevents black women from fully sharing their experiences for fear that they will be judged for their choices and also denounces the sexual identity of those who do not fit within these categories. Overall, it is necessary for society to develop a more sex positive attitude as this is what will allow black women who exhibit their sexuality in conservative ways, liberal ways and in between to all be and feel more respected.I also imagine my Independent Study serving as a teaching aid for community center mentors or perhaps high school teachers. The teaching aid would target minority students of color (specifically young African American women) aged between 15 and 18 and allow educators to introduce sexuality stereotypes plaguing black women. Students could learn much about this topic prior to their entry into college or other forms of higher education. By showing my students both canonical literature and pop culture texts, side by side, I will be modeling a type of interdisciplinary learning. The integration of contemporary and literary works will generate engaging, yet important conversations that are accessible to students and create a more concrete understanding of the material.This teaching aid will not only help minority students; non-students of color (specifically female students who are not of color) will be able to benefit from my teachings by understanding their role in the perpetuation or dismantling of these stereotypes. As privileged students who may not directly encounter the repercussions of sexuality stereotypes, Caucasian women can use their privilege as a platform to address the harm that these stereotypes bring black women. A thorough comprehension of sex positivity will allow for the acceptance of the black female body by those with body privilege, but more importantly urge these same individuals to not passively ignore stereotypes when they see them. To further equip students with the most useful information, I have included a glossary encompassing terms/works mentioned throughout the text. Most high school students will not have in-depth discussions surrounding these terms until their entry into college. Introducing these terms to students early on in their education will establish a framework that can create more sophisticated dialogue later in their college careers. A physical record of the terminologies used would also be handy for students who want to later refer back to these terms for further clarification or to reference during other discussions.
2016_ENGL_08386810.pdf	2016	This independent study investigates adult authority in youth literature in late-nineteenth-century Britain. Examining both sensational literature known as “penny dreadfuls” and the didactic magazines The Boy’s Own Paper and The Girl’s Own Paper, this project analyzes how rhetoric enforced middle class ideology outside of the classroom and shaped the youth reading experience. In an urbanizing, industrializing Britain, anxiety about social mobility ran high, and youth consumption of penny dreadfuls received suspicion due to their supposedly subversive content. This study argues that penny dreadfuls actually reinforced the social order, mirroring didactic literature in their construction of conservative adult authority. In order to demonstrate the similarity between these two forms, this project studies Lemony Snicket’s A Series of Unfortunate Events as a way to approach the adult narrator in late-nineteenth-century texts due to its exaggeration of both sensational and didactic narration styles. As Lemony Snicket’s hybrid narrator deconstructs adult authority through postmodern techniques, he reveals that youth reading autonomy remained a fantasy in late-nineteenth-century Britain.
2016_ENGL_08389817.pdf	2016	How do political practices influence mass culture? Conversely, how does mass culture influence political practice? This project addresses these questions by turning to the concepts of utopia and dystopia. Imagined utopic and dystopic visions express both the hopes and anxieties of the societies producing them. Dystopias also highlight the mechanisms of power that function within particular social orders. Through readings of Lois Lowry’s The Giver and Phillip K. Dick’s Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, I demonstrate how utopia and dystopia function and how we can respond to dystopic realities by theorizing solutions that are more conducive to the preservation of democracy. Additionally, I read Christopher Nolan’s Dark Knight Trilogy as a dystopia that exaggerates the fears of terrorism and crime in order to cause the viewers to see the ceding of civil liberties as a reasonable avenue for pursuing safety. In this way, the films reflect and support post-9/11 domestic and foreign policy, especially with respect to issues of surveillance. If this is the case, and if we are currently allowing our view of policy to be shaped by the imaginary mechanism that is dystopia, then is there another way that we can conceive of or imagine the world that is more conducive to democratic practices? The question of what a more-democratic response to dystopic imaginaries might be is tied to our real-world policy attempts to create utopic regimes in the here and now.
2016_ENGL_08391197.pdf	2016	This Independent Study is concerned with developing a theory of language and meaning in the textual form. Strucutralist, Sartrean, and Wittgenstenian thought on language, meaning, and  literature on are employed in order to ascertain a theoryof  textual meaning  that is not bound to the speech act, logical positivists notions of language, or the model of authorial intent prescribed by language. The text is broken up into five chapters .Chapter one serves as an introduction  to how a theory of authorship pertains to meaning , Wittgenstein’s models of language, and why we need a more universal textual understanding of meaning. Chapter one outlines the argument structure and progression of thought to come and develops a framework on how  to treat  meaning  philosophically.Chapter two provides a series of Structuralist literary critical perspectives on authorship in literature. These are taken  up individually and on their own terms to illuminate the correlation between their methods and  theories of meaning in relation to the framework  Wittgensteins helps construct.Chapter three looks towards Sartre’s perspective on the matter of authorship and structural methods. Sartre’s work responds to those works dealt with in chapter two and provides a basis for making the argument about how meaning in the text functions.Chapter four responds to the critique that  the literary-critical texts on authorship in a literary form cannot be taken as pertaining to philosophy or other kinds of texts. This brings about an argument about the relationship between  philosophy and  literature and their textual commonalities.Chapter five concludes the project  by advocating for a more holistic and structured cross-disciplinary understanding of meaning, and  interpreting meaning, in the textual form academic fields are required to engage in.
2017_ENGL_09906431.pdf	2017	My Independent Study is a collection of personal essays titled Stumbling Through Arcadia centered in Acadia National Park in Maine, Arches National Park in Utah and Holland State Park in Michigan. These essays explore the complexity in finding a balance between the access to and the preservation of America’s natural areas. Along with using my own personal experiences in these places, I also used authors like Edward Abbey, Terry Tempest Williams, and Simon Schama to develop the concepts I used in my study and to frame my narratives stylistically.
2017_ENGL_09924972.pdf	2017	At the turn of the twentieth century, a group of Kentucky authors composed a collection of historical romances reflecting on their state’s history – before, during, and after the Civil War. These writers included James Lane Allen, John Fox Jr., Alice Hegan Rice, and Annie Fellows Johnston. Many of the stories of these four authors became bestsellers, both in Kentucky and nationally. This study aims to better understand the mythologized memory of the war which both influenced these authors and was further disseminated by their stories. To do so, it analyzes their treatment of reconciliation, monumental memory, the past presence of slavery, and U.S. expansionism. In particular, it looks at how race, gender, and class operate in these memories. By celebrating a masculine, white, elitist memory of Kentucky history, these authors obscured the lived experiences of a large majority of Kentuckians alive before, during, and after the Civil War. This study looks at how these stories processed the past, confronted the present, and hoped to define the future. It explores the cultural context which they reflect, while also considering the role they had on shaping both regional and national social identity.
2017_ENGL_09925190.pdf	2017	This collection of essays shares and examines memories of my father having to do with food. By posting them on a blog I was able to share them directly and effectively with family and friends who are closest to the subject matter. 
2017_ENGL_09927932.pdf	2017	In this Independent Study, I examine Harriet Jacobs’s slave narrative, Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl (2001), and various examples of what I call non-fictional neo-slave narratives taken from 2014-2016 editions of The Huffington Post, and Black Millennials. For the purposes of this project, I define neo-slave narratives as any fiction or non-fiction work written after slavery that tells of an experience that is a result of the lingering oppressions of slavery that effect people of African descent. The term was coined by Ishmael Reed, for fictional works only, in his text A Flight to Canada (1976). In other words, here I consider a 19th century Black women’s slave narrative alongside 21st century Black women’s true stories from online media sources, stories that I believe could also be considered neo-slave narratives. After doing close readings of Jacobs’s text and then creating my own two journal entry-type responses to related articles found in different online media outlets, I also argue that Black girls in the Brooklyn middle schools in which I’ll soon teach, need to be exposed to a curriculum rich in both older and new Black women’s literature and history. My conscious effort to diversify my curriculum in terms of race and time period is important because I’ve found that it is impossible to fully understand scholar Kimberle Crenshaw’s “intersectionality” (or, what it means to be both Black and a woman) in contemporary society without studying both historical and contemporary texts. The selected online articles reveal various methods of resistance seen in the Black community today that mirror those used by slave women like Jacobs. Black women in American society, then, endlessly fight for their humanity, come to terms with their identities, and learn how their gender and race mix, so as not to be compromised by the constructed hierarchy that maintains white supremacy. Part One of this Independent Study includes my analysis of Jacobs’s text. I analyze different themes of Black womanhood in today’s society that were prevalent during the slave society as well. I expand upon the themes in these new and old narratives by utilizing Black feminist thought. Within Part Two of the I.S., I share my original two lesson plans and discuss the importance of a middle school curriculum that is inclusive of historical and contemporary texts about and authored by Black women. To support my teaching claims, I relied upon the work of bell hooks and Chandra Mohanty.
2017_ENGL_09927957.pdf	2017	In this Independent Study entitled “Tell Me How You Really Feel: An Analysis of How Black Literature and Pop Culture Reveals the War Between Black Men and Women,” I examine historical stereotypes such as the Mammy, Sapphire, Jezebel, and Buck. I use the style of an extended review essay (the type that is found in a scholarly journal like American Quarterly). Scholarly review essays “emphasize the theoretical and methodological implications” of multiple texts and state what those texts imply about “future research in American studies” (americanquarterly.org). I argue that “interpretive communities” should study black culture of two types: 1) that which debunks caricatures, and 2) that which also reinforces caricatures. This type of simultaneous study will be the most helpful as they push for more positive images of blacks in literature, film, and visual art.In this I.S., I am a reader-response critic using a black feminist lens. In the first part of this project, I analyze both positive and negative reactions black feminists and scholars, both male and female, have to representations of black characters within the works of Ntozake Shange’s For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow is Enuf (1975) Tyler Perry’s film adaptation of Shange’s text (2010), and Tyler Perry’s first film, Diary of A Mad Black Woman (2005). In the second part of this project, I use the aforementioned positive and negative literature and film reactions to further unpack the bad gender politics hurting the interpersonal relationships between black men and women. I discuss the ways in which black male patriarchy affects their relationships and causes them to misunderstand one another. In the final portion of this study, I show what interpretive communities could use from social media sites, such as Instagram and Twitter. As teaching tools, they should utilize both stereotypical and politically correct memes and comments, as together they best combat conflicts destroying black men and women’s interpersonal relations.
2017_ENGL_09932883.pdf	2017	An examination of space-related science fiction featuring prominent LGBT characters from the 1960s to the present day, with a special eye to the ways in which contemporary events and mindsets influence fictional depictions of LGBT people in outer space.
2013_HIST_04678350.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study is to investigate the motivations behind student activists at the College of Wooster, as well as the main methods of activism. By using a variety of qualitative and quantitative research methods, I will show that the ultimate goals of politically active students is to both garner more power and improve the abilities of those like them in finding their way to political and social class consciousness. It will also provide historical context for which this activism has developed from in order to better understand the reasoning of contemporary activists and their work.
2013_HIST_04760317.pdf	2013	"This paper analyzes the causes, structure, and discourse of the movement of Tupac Amaru in the Viceroyalty of Peru (1780-1781). The causes are divided into two chapters. The first reflects the intangible changes brought on by the Bourbon Reforms to the daily lives of the rural indigenous. It is shown that these reforms, while attempting to limit the corruption of the colonial elite, actually increased economic pressure on the natives. The second chapter analyzes the mechanisms of the colonial system that were present in daily life, and analyzes how they disrupted indigenous communities. The third chapter demonstrates that the supporters and opponents of Tupac Amaru's movement cannot be divided along racial lines. The uprising was not simply a ""race war."" The last chapter shows how Tupac Amaru's movement was reformist in nature, as opposed to revolutionary or anti-colonial."
2013_HIST_04760318.pdf	2013	"As Hollywood perpetuated stereotypes such as the Savage and the Noble Savage in films such as John Ford's Stagecoach and Cheyenne Autumn, American Indians struggled to maintain their own identity. Additionally, the physical and cultural genocide of Native Americans, including massacres and white-washing techniques such as the education of children in boarding schools, contributed to this loss of cultural identity. But there are two sides to every story and the story of a quest for Native American identity through activism and film remains largely untold. The modern movement for Native activism, otherwise known as ""Red Power,"" began with the occupation of Alcatraz in 1969 and continued into the 70s with the occupations of the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and Wounded Knee. During this time, other films like Arthur Penn's Little Big Man helped contribute to messages of freedom and violence by exposing the horrors of the Vietnam War and reminding Americans of their own complicity in the destruction of Native Americans. However, Native American activism and film in the 80s was relatively quiet after the turbulence of the 60s and 70s. And then came the release of Kevin Costner's Dances with Wolves in 1990, which served as the genesis of a renaissance of indigenous filmmaking in the 1990s. Dances with Wolves articulated Native Americans as human and, because of its popularity and celebrity (winning seven Oscars), it provided a wealth of opportunities for indigenous filmmakers and actors. In particular, three films--Smoke Signals, The Business of Fancydancing, and Older than America--emphasize Indian humanity through the exposure of modern-day issues, such as addiction, alcoholism, family, and friendship."
2013_HIST_04760319.pdf	2013	"The focus of this thesis is on the interaction between the declining economy and systemic school segregation in the post-Brown era, from 1954 to 1980, in Akron, Ohio.  This thesis asks, how did Akron's economic decline influence desegregation in public schools and attitudes toward busing in the decades following the Brown v. Board of Education decision?  This thesis is situated in scholarship over last fifteen years related to the ""myth of southern exceptionalism"" and debates around the usefulness of the de facto/de jure dichotomy.  Akron, Ohio is an appropriate and interesting city to examine.  As a Rust Belt city with a sizeable African American population, Akron provides an opportunity to understand the role of economic decline on the state of and attitudes toward desegregation in the Rust Belt.  Desegregation was such a contentious issue that it was the subject of a major trial in Akron, Bell v. Board of Education."
2013_HIST_04760320.pdf	2013	A historical socio-legal examination of interracial marriage and the transformation of the institution of marriage in the United States from 1883 to 1967. Focuses on miscegenation legislation, the social and legal reasons behind bans on interracial marriage, and the progressive liberalization of society and concurrent legal changes, which resulted in an overturning of the legal prohibitions on interracial marriage. This thesis presents a close examination of three critical Supreme Court cases in regard to interracial marriage, and the social climate of American race relations at the time of each case. There is also a comparison drawn between the historical debate over the legalization of interracial marriage and the present day debate over the legalization of same-sex marriage.
2013_HIST_04760321.pdf	2013	"The Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee provided a space for African American women to raise the ""woman question"" and challenge traditional gender roles.  Their activism does not fall into the traditional understanding of feminism but their efforts to change understandings of race and gender cannot be ignored."
2013_HIST_04760322.pdf	2013	This thesis examines the evolving educational purposes of social, juvenile, and mercantile/mechanic libraries in British North America from 1731 to 1830. Analyzing contemporary accounts about these libraries, their book catalogs, and social libraries' rules and regulations demonstrates that these institutions constructed their educational missions in response to regional attitudes towards education, republicanism, social attitudes towards children and youth, and educational reform movements. Parallels can be drawn from this work to modern ideas about the role of public libraries that explains our attitudes towards libraries in education and society today.
2013_HIST_04760323.pdf	2013	This Independent Study features the works not only of Vladimir Putin, but of famous opposition writers such as Anna Politkovskaya, Masha Gessen, Lilia Shevtsova, and other prominent Russian scholars. By referencing the insights of all these individuals, and putting them in context with newspaper articles written during the time period, it is possible to establish, and analyze, the government and opposition accounts of the events examined in this Independent Study. The purpose of this Independent Study is to examine precisely how autocratic Putin's first two terms as President were, and what effect they had on the state of freedom and democracy in the Russian Federation. Putin's persecution of members of the opposition and the media comprised the dark side of his two-terms as president. By understanding the most horrific and questionable events of Putin's presidency from 2000-2008, along with his past, we can better realize the true legacy of Putin's first years in office.
2013_HIST_04760325.pdf	2013	I analyze the transition indigenous peoples made from their native Andean communities to the Spanish colonial city of Potosí­ in modern day Bolivia. Although most historic study focuses on the infamous mita system of forced indigenous labor, I study the transition through the indigenous lens to find example of their economic gains as well as the cultural interactions they had with Spaniards. This alternative focus gives Potosí's past a very different characterization, defined less by exploitation and more by cultural syncretism.
2013_HIST_04760326.pdf	2013	This project examines the involvement of American Quakers in social justice and peace movements in U.S. history. Specifically, it focuses on three case studies--the Quaker involvement in abolishing slavery, the Alabama Quakers who moved to Monteverde, Costa Rica, and the Quaker activists of the Vietnam War Era.
2013_HIST_04760327.pdf	2013	"Understanding Arab nationalism is very complex in that the definition of what makes a person an Arab has historically been very loosely defined. While the easiest way to define the Arab nation as simply the people who speak Arabic, historically there have been distinctions made between Arab groups due to purity of lineage, religion, and local familial identities. As a result of this complexity, when the first Syrians immigrated to the United States, they were initially seen as strange Oriental foreigners and were at first barred from becoming naturalized in the United States. However, the ambiguity of American definitions of race were too vague to adequately define the difference between being white and Oriental, which forced the Syrians to construct their racial identity in a very specific manner. A Syrian elite that had been educated at Western missionary institutions in Syria took the leading role in this process and an examination of both American and Syrian newspapers demonstrates a concerted effort by Syrians to present their identity as one that was inherently Western. The Syrian elite contrasted themselves from the stereotypes of the Orient by emphasizing their success at adopting American customs, their Christianity, and their contributions to Western culture. The goal of this paper is to demonstrate that this process of ""Americanization,"" influenced the way this Syrian intelligentsia also viewed the twentieth century concept of the Arab nation by examining their major writings. When confronted with the idea, the Syrian intelligentsia framed their identity around their cultural connection with the West. Some Syrians rejecting inclusion into the Arab nation, preferring a more focused Lebanese identity, whereas others accepted their place in the Arab nation. In both cases, the Syrian intelligentsia used the same justifications for Arab nationalism, that they had for naturalization. These justifications were very different from those used by Arab nationalists in the Arab world, many of whom saw the Arab nationalism as inherently Islamic, preserving Ottoman institutions, and driven by a struggle against the West."
2013_HIST_04760328.pdf	2013	My research attempts to understand the construction and evolution of contemporary national and ethnic identity by studying the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma. This work will attempt to discuss modern issues of identity through the context of the Cherokee Nation's constitutional law and the challenges to said law. I purpose that tensions and growth in Cherokee identity can be seen in the 1975 and 1999 Cherokee constitutions and the legal battles surrounding them. The theoretical aspect of my work will be drawing from Anthropologist Arjun Appadurai and American Indian Nationalist Jace Weaver. These two theorists provide through provide a fitting theoretical framework for my analysis as Appadurai concerns himself with identity in modernity and Weaver is a Cherokee nationalist. While Appadurai and Weaver often disagree their theoretical tensions mirror the societal tensions in the Cherokee Nation. In the process of discussing Cherokee law I will be reviewing the history of ethnic and racial tensions in the Cherokee Nation with particular attention given to the Cherokee Freedmen.
2013_HIST_04760329.pdf	2013	This essay compares and contrasts the national identity and musical output from the nations of Chile, Brazil, Mexico, and the United States. Each chapter focuses on one country and describes the events that led to the formation of their national identity. In addition, a musical movement unique to each nation is discussed in the body of the chapters. The way these movements are shaped by and mirror cultural attitudes and notions of belonging to a national community is central to the thesis.
2013_HIST_04760330.pdf	2013	Addressing the elite-focus of global city literature, this study argues this focus is a product of the field's methodological conventions which limit understandings of non-elites in global cities. Occupy Wall Street (OWS) and New York are used as a case study to examine non-elite's access to global social power via traditional and non-traditional political science/historical methods that begin to remedy the field's elite-focus. In light of a literature review and historical analysis, the study argues that the formation of a global city cannot occur without domestic neoliberal policies that  encourage global capital into fixed locations. Correspondingly, this study's ethnography illustrates that under neoliberalism, the networks developed at elite-levels are analogous to non-elite networks which frequently deal with the consequences of neoliberalism. A product of its environment, the study concludes that OWS is a denationalized and cosmopolitan movement via its New York location.
2013_HIST_04760331.pdf	2013	This Senior Independent Study examines the battlefields in Gettysburg during three different time frames. While examining these time frames at Gettysburg the reader can understand how events that occurred after the battle of Gettysburg helped shape the culture and landscape of today's Gettysburg National Park.
2013_HIST_04760332.pdf	2013	My Independent Study is about the Democratic Republic of Somalia from decolonization in 1960 to state collapse in 1991. It looks at the main colonial actors: Great Britain and Italy set the post colonial state up to collapse.
2013_HIST_04760333.pdf	2013	As Governor of New Jersey, Jim Florio quickly enacted multiple pieces of landmark legislation. When his tax increases became a rallying point for anti-tax advocates, the Toilet Paper Tax was born. Florio battled for three years to keep the state moving forward but was defeated in the 1993 New Jersey Gubernatorial election by Christie Whitman.
2013_HIST_04760334.pdf	2013	Photojournalism was the dominant form of mass media during the Second World War. Photography was the universal language, capable of communicating events across any language barrier quickly and effectively. A study of three prominent photojournalists reveals that each had a unique personal style in regards to how they captured a photographic image. The study reveals a shift in each photographer's styles and approach as the war progressed. After reviewing and analyzing the photographer's lives and photographic history, it can be concluded that each photographer was so affected by the events they witnessed in the war, that they altered both their substance and style to reflect what they had seen in order to better educate the viewer.
2013_HIST_04760335.pdf	2013	This thesis studies the role of training in the Allied victory in the Battle of the Atlantic. I argue that training played a significant role in this decisive battle in World War II. I detail the different stages of training for both the Navy and Army Air Force.
2013_HIST_04760337.pdf	2013	A mixture of curricular strategies and historical analysis of the sixth grade Ohio Social Studies curriculum.
2013_HIST_04760340.pdf	2013	Looks at the relationship between the media, and the way they cover superstars on World Series winning teams, and if there are factors which led to a change in the coverage of the media.
2013_HIST_04760342.pdf	2013	Imagine walking down an old country dirt trail along side your dad on an early summer evening. The two of you are enjoying your time but it quickly turns to hell. As you are walking, you begin to feel the ground shake as if you were in a old western movie. When you turn around, you see a pack of white men riding on horses and carrying shotguns. These men quickly approach your father cursing and threatening your lives. The men clearly know that they are feared, so they began to toy with your father. They make him salute and bow down as if they were kings. As you are watching, you are in shock and complete fear. You're so scared that you begin to cry because you do not know if you or your father will make it out alive. This real event, which happened when Benjamin E. Mays was a young boy, was perhaps the defining moment on the early life of Benjamin E. Mays. Mays never forgot that evening. He feared for his life and that of his father. The position of defenseless was perhaps the most horrible part of the experience. Mays life-long battle to educate black and white Americans about equality between the races was perhaps born that night.
2013_HIST_04760345.pdf	2013	"When the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) was created in 1937 the organization's mission was to provide decent and affordable housing for low-income people. As thousands of African Americans migrated to Chicago from the South after World War II, a combination of public policy and private exclusion forced them to turn to the CHA for housing. Through political manipulation and racism, the CHA became a tool to segregate, confine, and conceal Chicago's burgeoning African American population. By the 1960s, 99 percent of CHA tenants were African American and over 90 percent of CHA developments were located in predominantly African American neighborhoods. The purpose of this thesis is to examine the CHA's role in segregating African Americans through three events in the organization's history. After an exploration of the city's historical background, the first event examined is the political struggle in the late 1940s that determined the location of future CHA projects in African American neighborhoods. The experience of an African American family that integrated a CHA project in 1953 and the rioting that followed is the focus of the second event. Finally, the construction of a figurative ""wall"" of public housing projects served to isolate, segregate, and concentrate thousands of low income African Americans. This blatant discrimination motivated a group of CHA tenants and a dedicated public interest lawyer to challenge the CHA's racist housing patterns in court. The nearly twenty-year effort to end state sponsored segregation would be the dramatic conclusion to the CHA's discriminatory housing policies and is the final event described. This thesis shows how the process of segregating African Americans took generations and undoing this public housing failure will take even longer."
2013_HIST_04760348.pdf	2013	This Independent Study examines the racial images that existed in Mexican contract labor from 1942-1964, or the bracero program. Specifically, it focuses on perceptions of braceros from the Mexican government, agribusiness employers, American unions and Mexican civil rights groups, while lastly analyzing braceros' own self-perceived identity.
2013_HIST_04760351.pdf	2013	This independent study thesis is a broad survey of Argentine economic history from 1880 to 1976, specifically exploring the effects of international events on a developing postcolonial nation. This study follows the course of events that led Argentina from an export-led economy to an isolationist economy. Moreover, this study explains the failures and dangers of an isolated economy. As a result, this study offers insight into the general process of development and industrialization.
2013_HIST_04760354.pdf	2013	An examination of the role of the buffalo in the west and the cultures on the plains. The author incorporates the story of his research trip with the story of the buffalo. His research trip took him to North and South Dakota, Montana and Washington and lasted about a month. The author incorporates the story of the buffalo and the various periods of history on the plains with his trip .
2013_HIST_04760364.pdf	2013	The beginning of the Second World War was dominated by a new type of strategy developed by German General Heinz Guderian that overwhelmed the Allied armies in Poland and France. Guderian argued that the best way to win on the battlefield and avoid the stalemate of World War I should be done through the use of tanks grouped together in formation: the product of this strategy was embodied in the Panzer divisions that, through mobility and coordination of multiple weapons, were able to breach the enemy's defensive lines with devastating effects.
2013_HIST_04760367.pdf	2013	Anti-appeasement was ineffective because those who were against the government's appeasement policy lacked leadership and failed to unite as a single, strong voice. Criticism of appeasement came most often in the form of sporadic outbursts from an individual to little effect. The few times that a group of anti-appeasers were brought together to take a stand against the Conservative Party's official policy, they were not all fully committed to making a potentially dangerous political move and thus were unable to change the tide of political opinion.
2013_HIST_04760370.pdf	2013	This study discusses the interests of Great Britain in Africa during the era of imperialism. It discusses how the British built their empire and the effects their policies had on the African colonies. This study is meant to be used as a guide for teaching imperialism at a high school level.
2013_HIST_04760372.pdf	2013	This is a comparison of the plague epidemic that occurred in London with the epidemic in Florence. The focus is on the seventeenth century outbreak. Comparing these two cities, allows us to know what methods were most effective in fighting the disease and what developments were made as result of the plague. While the plague had catastrophic effects, it also resulted in many positive developments.
2013_HIST_04760376.pdf	2013	This thesis explores the role of environment and Spanish educational principles in the decline of legitimized Catholic monarchical rule in England, focusing on Isabella of Castile, Catherine of Aragon, and Mary Tudor.
2013_HIST_04760379.pdf	2013	This project looks at both official and silenced discourse pertaining to Rwandan genocide remembrance. I look specifically at discourse at museums, memorials, memoir, and film. I argue that the Rwandan state exists in the midst of a political conflict that has produced dual memories of victimization. While the genocidal violence inflicted on Tutsi should be commemorated as uniquely cruel and inhumane, many Hutu experienced similar acts of genocide in the 1972 Burundian genocide and in eastern Congo at the hands of the Rwandan Patriotic Front. The Rwandan state faces the challenge of rebuilding in a context in which both sides have memories of victimization, but only groups that follow the government narrative are given a voice.
2013_HIST_04760387.pdf	2013	This paper discusses the advice of patriarchy in Renaissance Florence in elite families. The research uses memoirs and letters of elite families to research the influence in decisions of marriage, family cultivation, and public image.
2013_HIST_04760390.pdf	2013	Comic books have been a source of enjoyment for decades but they have now taken on a much deeper meaning than ever before. This study will show that while American society is still just as violent as it has ever been there is an increasingly desensitization towards violence because violence has become an increasing part of everyday American life. The art in comics will show that as they get increasingly darker this kind of violence is more tolerated, as Americans have grown desensitized and only bring up the increasing violence in media when some horrific tragedy strikes.
2012_HIST_04760393.pdf	2012	The topic is approached in three different manners: hybrid theory, academic perspectives, and poetry analysis. An application of hybrid theory facilitates the understanding of cultural identity within Chile. A discussion by three Chilean professors reveals the important themes of geographic location, generation, and language in both the production and reception of written contemporary Mapuche poetry. An analysis of selected of written Mapuche poetry depicts the unique conceptualizations of identity by contemporary Mapuche poets. As a result, this independent study shows how written contemporary Mapuche poetry is an appropriate indicator of the evolution of Mapuche hybrid identity.
2012_HIST_04760397.pdf	2012	This IS is an economic history curriculum designed for grade eight. It focuses on three early American historical events: colonial slavery, the Industrial Revolution, and the Gold Rush. This IS includes the lesson plans, activities, and assessments for the curriculum.
2012_HIST_04760400.pdf	2012	Over the course of American History, New Jersey's Frelinghuysen Family has been an influential political dynasty. Collectively, the Frelinghuysens have had four senators, a Vice Presidential candidate, two members of Congress and Secretary of State. They also had one of the founding figures of the Great Awakening movement. This I.S tracks these family members through themes of Christianity, Patriotism and Political Wisdom.
2012_HIST_04760403.pdf	2012	This thesis explores the intersection of the formalization of schools and the feminization of teaching in the nineteenth century. Specifically, it shares the perspective of the displaced male teacher who often re-located into newly formed administrative positions in the field of education.
2012_HIST_04760406.pdf	2012	This work investigates the coding theory, cryptology and the role of cryptology in the development of American intelligence gathering. Coding theory and cryptology are both mathematical studies that change a set of data into another form, but each has a different purpose. Codes are used to correct transmission errors, while ciphers are used to secure data from unwanted readers. The rise of American cryptology was the driving force behind the rise of American intelligence through the twentieth century. America had little intelligence gathering before it started its period of expansion, creating an intelligence void that needed filled. The rise of cryptologic intelligence helped Americans fill that void.
2012_HIST_04760409.pdf	2012	My Senior Independent Study will take an in depth look at the Tule Lake Japanese internment camp during World War II. After a brief historical overview how internment camps came into existence, the reader will learn about the hardships of regular internment and how Tule Lake would transform from being a regular internment camp into a segregation camp. This Independent Study questions how the environment of both inside and outside of Tule Lake affected Japanese internees. After carefully examining the environment during both internment and segregation periods, this manuscript will show how the conditions at Tule Lake not only caused Japanese internees to rise together and unite against the War Relocation Authority, but also paradoxically how it caused some Japanese internees to turn against each other.
2012_HIST_04760412.pdf	2012	This study looks at three fundamental disagreements with the current rights regime and how they effect the universalization of human rights. It looks at fundamental disagreements with  human rights in the Islamic traditon, the Chinese tradition, and the developing world and how they are reflected in the work of Amnesty International. It concludes the the current global human rights regime needs to be rethought and human rights need to be reconceptualized.
2012_HIST_04760415.pdf	2012	This Independent Study looks at the various aspects of speakeasies during Prohibition, and social changes that occurred during this time for Women and African Americans. Flappers were the main focus when discussing the social changes for women. The Harlem Renaissance, Jazz, the Great Migration, and Prohibition were topics covered when discussing the social changes of African Americans.
2012_HIST_04760420.pdf	2012	My Senior IS is on the history and development of the bourbon industry in Kentucky with a focus on the Jim Beam Distillery.  The Bourbon industry played a vital role in the development of the state of Kentucky, and had a direct relationship on the state's rise in population from the late 18th to the early 19th centuries.  Bourbon was instrumental in helping rebuild Kentucky following the Civil War, and help the state survive during the later years of the Great Depression, but bourbon would also have a national impact.  Bourbon would help get the country out of debt following the Revolutionary War, and was an integral part of the successes in World War I and II.  My IS will also discuss the impact of Temperance and Prohibition on the bourbon industry.  Overall, the bourbon industry still plays a vital role in Kentucky's economy, and society.
2012_HIST_04760423.pdf	2012	This study examines the creation of Cleveland's positive civic image through the presence of the Cleveland Indians in the immediate postwar years. Each chapter suggests how baseball and the Cleveland Indians played an important role in Cleveland's transition to postwar prosperity. The postwar Cleveland Indians became a symbol of Cleveland's perceived return to glory and were an important element in reviving a positive civic image. The first chapter examines Cleveland's history from its beginning through the immediate postwar years. The chapter presents postwar Cleveland as a city determined to return to the national prominence it held prior to the Great Depression, and concludes by suggesting that the Cleveland Indians were helpful in that endeavor. Chapter Two provides a history of baseball in Cleveland and most importantly examines how the postwar success of the Cleveland Indians was instrumental in reviving a positive civic image after World War II. The third chapter analyzes Bill Veeck's immeasurable impact on the city of Cleveland during his three and a half years as owner of the Cleveland Indians, from 1946 to 1949. Through gutsy personnel decisions and whacky promotional gimmicks, Veeck created an environment at the ballpark that attracted fans in record numbers. At the same time, he put together the most successful teams in the history of the franchise, culminating in a World Series Championship in 1948. Finally, Chapter Four examines how certain changes in postwar America's media landscape increased the role that sport and baseball played in unifying Americans in the aftermath of World War II.
2012_HIST_04760427.pdf	2012	"The use of the automobile in private and corporate sectors reshaped the American economy.  Federally paved roads provided a groundwork that continues to support millions of motorized consumers.  Automobility became an expected convenience for a majority of the country's citizens during the twentieth century, and motorized consumers have access to consolidated hubs of commerce that supply goods and services at prices competitively cheaper than small private vendors.  The widespread use of the automobile and the impressive Federal funding of road construction reshaped American methods of consumption.  Citizens utilize cars on roads with an automatic regularity that emphasizes the quick and efficient consumption, systematically supporting the mass-production of goods and services.  Automobility motivated establishments to provide consistent and inexpensive products in conglomerated and centralized locations.  Drive-thru restaurants, mechanic garages, and even beer distributors often negate the need to leave the vehicle.  Shopping centers, roadside strip-malls, and mega-malls draw on large communities of consumers, and the services provided are standardized to meet the demands of a high rate of traffic. Even with the development of advanced telecommunications and air travel technologies in the twentieth century, access to roads provides the primary foundation for local transportation of goods.  Travel by foot obviously remained an option, similarly horse-drawn and locomotive modes of transportation continued to exist throughout the twentieth century, yet the automobile jumpstarted a migratory revolution that permanently marked the American landscape with a massive system of roads.  The mass-consumption of automobiles required expansive Federal funding to modify and construct roads.  Paved roads facilitating a transformation of the aesthetic environmental landscape, simultaneously germinating consolidated public services and reorganizing the economic priorities of American consumers.  The relationship between consumers and technology involves a multi-faceted interaction of factors, yet roads are a relatively simple technology in comparison to the combustion engine or even a speedometer.  Good roads supported novel methods of transportation and the automotive revolution in migratory behavior defined American consumerism during the twentieth century.  New technologies develop frequently and with improved efficiency and functionality. The automobile constituted a drastic improvement from horse-drawn transportation, and more than 100 years later American culture is still engulfed in automotive dependency.  Accurately assessing the long-term efficacy of the roads built in the twentieth century is an unreasonable undertaking, especially because despite useful nature of roads, American roads and highways are riddled with environmental and economic problems. Regardless of the benefits or disadvantages of automobility, American road building initiatives throughout the twentieth century subsidized the construction and continual maintenance of a colossal road system that will continue to adapt and change alongside the needs of those who navigate its surface."
2012_HIST_04760432.pdf	2012	This Senior Independent Study examines the South Vietnamese civilian experience during the Vietnam War through an oral history approach. Using interviews conducted with six South Vietnamese men and women, this thesis investigates how individuals constructed and defined a sense of normality during the war and formed an identity dedicated to survival.
2012_HIST_04760435.pdf	2012	In this Senior Independent Study I look at Charlemagne and the Holy Roman Empire and what effect they had on the Carolingian Renaissance and the development of medieval society. I specifically look at Charlemagne's origins, the history of the man Charles, and also the history of the myth of Charlemagne. By looking at how Charles became Charlemagne, what led to it, as well as what resulted from Charles' evolution from man to legend I can also see what impact this transformation had on European culture. From my research I have seen how Charlemagne's rise to imperial power helped to bring about the Carolingian Renaissance, and thus also helped to bring about a shift in Western European society from the mix of Roman and Germanic traditions that had dominated into a new society and culture, which would then develop and become the culture of medieval Europe.
2012_HIST_04760439.pdf	2012	This thesis uses primary and secondary sources to investigate what extent economic desires and topographical limitations impacted the construction of Cistercian monasteries when there was an ideal based on spiritual concerns. I found that economics played a large role in how the layouts of Cistercian monasteries developed.
2012_HIST_04760444.pdf	2012	By looking at the texts of Arthurian legends such as Sir Thomas Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur, T.H. White's The Once & Future King, and Marion Zimmer Bradley's The Mists of Avalon, one can gain a historical perspective of the time in which each work was written. Through this historical perspective and by looking at each author's personal life, a picture of Great Britain's national identity at the time of writing can be seen. As such, the Arthurian Cycle can be used to exemplify British national identity throughout history.
2012_HIST_04760447.pdf	2012	My independent study explores the musical forms of nuevo canto, nueva canción, and nueva trova. All three musical genres developed in the mid-twentieth century in Argentine, Chile, and Cuba respectively. This looks to explore the cultural significance of each genre in its respective country, and use the genre to demonstrate the highly polarized political and social situation in each during the 1950s through the 1970s.
2012_HIST_04760452.pdf	2012	This work discusses how questions of race, class, immigration and nationality have changed since 1948. To answer it I looked at the 1981 Brixton race riot and the 2011 UK urban youth riots. I argue that, despite improvements in black and white race relations, British society has continued to discriminate against black-Brits on multiple levels. I have also found that since the 1980s there has been a governmental and, more generally, a societal neglect of the working-class population as a whole. In regards to the findings of other scholars and historians, my work looks at both urban, poor blacks and whites as a class, without ignoring the vast differences in their racial and cultural experiences. For much of my study, I am also looking exclusively at both black and white urban youths. I look for causality of the discrimination through various factors such as, economics, housing, culture and policing. I seek to find out how societal issues in a first-world country could come to the point of violent rioting on the streets.
2012_HIST_04760455.pdf	2012	My IS focuses on how the hip hop movement influenced major changes in the game of basketball. I provide historical background on both basketball and hip hop for contextual understanding. Through my research, I have gained a better understanding for where hip hop as well as basketball started, and how the to iconic American staples came together to create the game we see today.
2012_HIST_04760458.pdf	2012	The historiography of the Farm Labor Movement, the upsurge in Hispanic farm worker labor organizing in the 1960's and 1970's, emphasizes its historical uniqueness as an isolated social movement. This project is a comparison between the two main exponents of this movement, the United Farm Workers Organizing Committee and the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, with a modern campaign by the United Food and Commercial Workers towards organizing the primarily Guatemalan workforce of a Case Farms chicken-processing factory in Ohio. Differences between these three movements lie in the different ethnic composition of the surrounding community, the acceptance of undocumented workers by the labor movement, the nature of employment, and the legal dimensions of American immigration. Changes in these factors occur both between cases and over time, making the extent to which these groups have been able to create lasting campaigns a historical question and narrative. As a three-case comparison, my main sources are newspaper articles and book sections, with interviews and footage being used in the case of the UFCW. The main method is creating a historical comparison based on existing research and scholarship.
2012_HIST_04760461.pdf	2012	Looks at Belfast's mural tradition during the Troubles. Asks what can the murals tell us about the communities that create them. Found that the murals reflect the thoughts and reactions of the community to the events of the time.
2012_HIST_04760465.pdf	2012	Fitness culture has a long history, but bodybuilding culture has a relatively short history.  Starting with Eugene Sandow in the 1890s, he brought the muscular, naked male form into the public realm.  Then John Grimek entered the scene in the 1930s and focused on the aesthetic ideal of the muscular body.  Lastly, Arnold Schwarzenegger, starting in the late 60s, solidified the winning standard as muscle mass coupled with muscle definition.  All these changes show the attributes unattainable perfection over time, but three major themes travel across all three influential individuals: publication of their training methods, physical displays of their body and their influence after retirement from competitions prove their search for unattainable perfection.  All these men subscribe to the understanding of masculine identity during their respective time period because masculine identity is socially constructed, but these individuals shape bodybuilding culture over time as they search for perfection of the physical body.
2012_HIST_04760467.pdf	2012	"My research of the expatriate experience in Paris is categorized by three main themes: an analysis of space, the ""Americanization"" of the city and the difference between expatriates and visitors. The subject is divided into an analysis of white male expatriate authors (Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald) and the various ways they were affected by the city. The second topic analyzes the African American expatriates, which is a much different experience."
2012_HIST_04760470.pdf	2012	The Responsibility to Protect Responsibly examines how international actors should conduct military humanitarian interventions by comparing NATO's intervention in Kosovo in 1999 with the United Kingdom's intervention in Sierra Leone in 2000. The case study revealed that the existing theory of the Responsibility to Protect fails to provide useful guidelines for the conduct of interventions, that the civil society of the state in which the intervention occurs must view the intervention as legitimate for there to be success, and that intervening actors must be aware of the humanitarian crisis' historical and regional context and adapt their military and development strategy accordingly.
2012_HIST_04760473.pdf	2012	This thesis examines the parallels between educational theory and practice through the lens of the oral history narrative. It examines both the importance of experiential learning militarily and in classroom learning as well as the pedagogical aspects of leadership.
2012_HIST_04760476.pdf	2012	In cemeteries all over the United States there are war heroes buried. But, most of them go unrecognized or are unknown in the grand scheme of the war. These are the men who fought the battles, the men who put their lives on the line for their home. The Civil War is filled with men like this. These men, were volunteer soldiers who signed up by their own volition to serve and protect the Union. My great, great, grandfather was one of these men. This I.S. is an attempt to uncover his life on the battlefield and to get a feel for what the average soldier in the Union was thinking at the time.
2012_HIST_04760478.pdf	2012	"This thesis analyzes the proposed ""reset"" with Russia by United States President Barack Obama. Ultimately, Russia and the United States will never achieve a fully cooperative relationship as there are too many cultural differences and misunderstandings that exist."
2012_HIST_04760481.pdf	2012	This paper studies the 1901 Pan-American Exposition, an international fair held in Buffalo in 1901. It concludes that the Exposition represented a microcosm of America at the turn of the twentieth century, in terms of the rise of big business, formation of a foreign policy, and technological developments.
2012_HIST_04760484.pdf	2012	This work looks in detail at Hungarian history from 1918 to October 1956. It finds that the causes of the Hungarian Revolution were historical, cultural, and immediate.
2012_HIST_04760487.pdf	2012	Lyndon Johnson represents an important shift in politics towards a strategy involving the conscious manipulation of imagery to achieve both local, statewide, and national electoral appeal. Most historians argue that Johnson's conscious and overt manipulation of cowboy and western mythology began after his election to the Senate in November of 1948. Using a close analysis of Johnson's pre-Presidential speeches, this work explores the ways in which Johnson began to manipulate frontier myth as early as in his election to the House of Representatives in 1937.
2012_HIST_04760489.pdf	2012	My Independent Study focuses on the Japanese-American experience leading up to their evacuation and internment, the experience of the internment and the after effects of incarceration. By looking at specific Japanese-American families I analyze how the internment affected each family and individual differently, but overall, a mark was left of the Japanese-American community forever.
2012_HIST_04760493.pdf	2012	My IS examined sensationalist coverage of the Great Chicago Fire of 1871 in the press and popular media. Through examining coverage of the fire in primary sources, and comparing that coverage to another urban disaster in 19th century Chicago, I determined that sensationalist coverage of the Fire demonstrated concern with the role of class and ethnicity in the city.
2012_HIST_04760496.pdf	2012	My Senior Independent Study looks at four coaches since the beginning of the National Football League and explains the innovations they made in order to help evolve the game into America's Game. I chose to look at George Halas, Paul Brown, Vince Lombardi, and Al Davis. Each coach represented a different time period in our country's history. I researched how the League stayed intact during the Depression, World War II, and the civil rights movement, but focused primarily on what each coach did in order to shape the game into what it is today.
2012_HIST_04760499.pdf	2012	My Independent Study project is about The Great Irish Potato Famine and how it was a natural disaster, but caused by the British government. Before the Famine, the British landlords forced the Irish to become heavily reliant on the potato crop. During the Famine, the British government's polices gave little relief to the Irish and were indifferent to their suffering. Through my research, I found that many historians in the nineteenth century were willing to blame the Irish for the Famine, for being too lazy and morally wrong. However, now the popular belief is that the Irish are victims and the British are responsible for the mass devastation and suffering. If the British government had implemented more effective policies sooner to help the Irish, the Irish population would not have drastically decreased nor would the Irish have suffered undue pain and injustice during the Famine.
2012_HIST_04760502.pdf	2012	This thesis explores what it means to have fought in World War II and how that story is different from a general historical overview. It is the war experience of Winthrop Worcester in the Fifteenth Air Force. I questioned what is a true war story and what Worcester's experience in the war actually was. I found that a war story can be about one man's strength and conviction in the face of the unknown, instead of a timeline of battles or statistics of the dead.
2012_HIST_04760506.pdf	2012	In my IS I ask how American Foreign Policy evolved from 1945-1954, during the First Indochinese War in Vietnam. Throughout that time span there were three different presidents in office, each with a different foreign policy that eventually led the United States into the Vietnam War. I answer the question of, how did America get committed to Vietnam?
2012_HIST_04760507.pdf	2012	This work examines the changing relations between the monarchy and the universities in Tudor England. It attempts to show that during this period the monarchy showed increased interest in Oxford and Cambridge, and came to believe that they were one of the cornerstones of English society.
2012_HIST_04760508.pdf	2012	From their inception in early 1650's, coffeehouses became very popular in London. Coffee became increasingly popular, but was not the only reason why people went to the coffeehouses. Not only did they provide the most up to date information, coffeehouses were also centers of discussion that the brightest minds of the time used to further their scholarly pursuits. At the same time, they were also attacked as bastions of sedition and Charles II even tried to suppress them. Coffeehouses were also part of the emerging trend of partisan politics, and learning that defined this time period. The questions for this project are how did coffeehouses fit into this divided and conflicting society, and what functions did they perform to integrate into their communities? This paper will argue that coffeehouses were institutions that could foment social and political conflict in London society, but also foment cultural advancements.
2012_HIST_04760510.pdf	2012	"Queen Mary I of England was given the title Bloody Mary for the number of people burned at the stake during her reign.  Yet other rulers have killed far more without the title ""Bloody.""  How did Mary earn the contempt of history?  Mary's problems began with the marital problems of her parents that with time led to the creation of the Anglican Church, and continued through a life that was marked by rejection and denial.  When Mary eventually came to the throne, she was motivated to restore the Catholicism that she loved and that had sustained her during her dark days.  In general, her critics were Protestants who disagreed with her in religious matters and who did not approve of a female leader.  Through it all, Mary loved her country and only wanted to do what she thought was best for her subjects."
2012_HIST_04760511.pdf	2012	The purpose of this I.S. is to create an understanding of how Christianity in North Africa influenced christianity in the Roman Church. When discussing North African Christianity it is St. Augustine of Hippo who was the greatest and and most important Notrh African bishop that had th greatest influence of the creation of the Roman Catholic Church. It is important to understand his philosophies and theologies and how they are present in the current Roman catholic Church, but at the same time it is necessary to go through meideval Europe and understand the churches backgrund after the fall of Rome. The reason for this is to understand the slow fade of the church away from Augustinian belief and into a more political based enviornment. It would not be until St.Thomas Aquinas after the crusades that would bring back the Augustinian faith based Catholic beliefs and tradidtions.
2012_HIST_04760512.pdf	2012	New Orleans has been a cultural melting pot since the four centuries since its foundation. Along with all the mixing of cultures and races in the former slave city, racial divisions were created by the governments that controlled the city. This history of inequality and oppression has been a blight on the city's records and this paper will explore the three main injustices that have placed blacks into the role of being second-class citizens. These three issues are race-based violence, environmental injustice, and neighborhood segregation. This paper will chronicle events of the three injustices that have pushed blacks to be second-class citizens since the foundation of New Orleans up to the travesty of Hurricane Katrina hitting the city in 2005. The black population of New Orleans has been oppressed by the governments, colonial, federal, state, and municipal, into a situation of second-class living that has permanently and negatively affected their lives and the lives of their ancestors.
2011_HIST_04760513.pdf	2011	An examination of the Navajo Livestock Ruction and the role the federal employee E. Reeseman Fryer had in the reduction.
2011_HIST_04760514.pdf	2011	The NRA today is an immensely powerful lobbying group. Yet its origins lie in a marksmanship organization with no political tendencies or aspirations. The question of how and why the NRA transitioned from such a s politically indifferent hobby club to the most influential and powerful lobbying group in the U.S. is one that lends great insight into the social turmoil of the 1960s and 1970s, as well as the unavoidable politically charged atmosphere of the United States. The NRA transitioned into a politically active group as a means of survival, backlashing against legislative and social changes.
2011_HIST_04760518.pdf	2011	An analysis of how piracy in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries challenged the legitimacy of the English Government.
2011_HIST_04760520.pdf	2011	This thesis aims to explore how atomic technology impacted life in the United States early on in the Cold War.
2011_HIST_04760522.pdf	2011	A Study of Marguerite de Navarre (1492-1549) Through Her Personal Relationships (specifically her brother, Francois, King of France, and their mother, Louise), and Literary Accomplishments
2011_HIST_04760523.pdf	2011	Study of the decline of Latin language enrollments in American public high schools in the 1960's and 1970's.
2011_HIST_04760526.pdf	2011	An assessment of American consumption and identity during the late 20th century using domestic microbreweries as a case study.
2011_HIST_04760529.pdf	2011	A short historical fiction story on a young woman and her life as it relates to crime during the 1920s.
2011_HIST_04760535.pdf	2011	Art Modell's move of the Cleveland Browns was one of the most controversial decisions in the history of sports. My study will look at why Modell decided to move the team and the aftermath of his decision.
2011_HIST_04760536.pdf	2011	This paper takes a 200 year period in Russian history and identifies and analyzes the overlooked middle ground of the Russian moderate activist.
2011_HIST_04760537.pdf	2011	The beginning of the nineteenth century opened a new cultural renaissance in the Russian Empire. In 1803, the Russian Empire sent ships on a journey around the world, resulting in some of the most geographic discoveries of the time. The establishment of Russian outposts in Alaska, California and Hawaii demonstrated Russia's potential to be a dominant world power. At the same time, however, events such as the Napoleonic Wars and the Decembrist Uprising of 1825 drew focus away from expansion and towards the rebuilding of Russia. This historical documentary focuses on the experiences of the Russian pioneers at Fort Ross in California, and how the settlement at Ross both integrated with and functioned separately from the Russian Empire. The documentary will also focus on the relationship between the Russians, Spanish and California Native Americans with narration of corresponding primary sources. The film will incorporate interviews with many of the leading Fort Ross specialists: California State Parks senior archaeologists Glenn Farris and Breck Parkman, Professor Kent Lightfoot of UC Berkeley, Professor Jim Gibson of York University in Canada, who led translation work with Russian documents, and several interpreters from the Fort Ross Interpretive Association. Viewers will learn not only about the history of Russians in the new world, but how they experienced and survived in Californian land.
2009_HIST_04760554.pdf	2009	Although the current history of the Social Gospel movement is broad and comprehensive, it fails to address the unique ways that women participated and what the movement meant to them. This study redefines the Social Gospel movement, centering on the concept of the Kingdom of God as the unifying element of reforms and reformers. By doing so, the different ways that women participated in the movement come to light. This analysis shows that women reformers tended to work actively instead of intellectually for reforms, worked as communities in large reform organizations, and resisted the Victorian gender ideology of the time. By looking at two particular reformers, Frances Willard and Maud Ballington Booth, this study shows that for women, the concept of the kingdom meant a change in gender roles and movement toward gender equality. This depiction of the kingdom was different from that held by male Social Gospel reformers, who largely believed in the Victorian separate sphere doctrine. This study contributes to the larger academic conversation about the Social Gospel movement and challenges previous definitions for the movement. By doing so, it brings attention to the different ways that women saw their work in the Social Gospel and includes their contributions in the history of the movement.
2013_HIST_04857166.pdf	2013	My alternative IS is focused on U.S. World War II propaganda posters and how they influenced American citizens during the war. Besides a written portion, I have also designed and will be displaying an exhibit of original WWII propaganda posters in the Special Collections department of the Andrews Library on Senior Symposium Day, April 27, 2012.
2014_HIST_05249597.pdf	2014	This project examines the theological thought and social practice of Rabbi Emil G. Hirsch from 1880 -1923 to demonstrate how he bridged the gap between Judaic faith and modernity within American Reform Judaism. I argue that Hirsch’s approach to the problems associated with modernity were neither fringe or radical, but practical and part of a greater logic within one rabbi’s theological thought. I pursue this argument through close analysis of Hirsch’s writings, sermons, and congregational notes. I use the important secondary literature on American Reform Judaism to help contextualize Hirsch’s work. At the same time, I critique the assertion that rabbi Hirsch should be a forgotten voice within American Reform Judaism due to his controversial positions on topics, such as Zionism. I executed this through a series of chapters that lead the reader through Hirsch’s place at Chicago Sinai, the logic behind his view on Jewish identity within and outside the community, and why he could not be a Zionist to show that the rabbi acted in an ordered manner in responding to his congregation’s problems in the face of modernity.
2014_HIST_05262794.pdf	2014	This thesis explores the relationship between President Jimmy Carter and Congress. In viewing this relationship, I will break down how President Carter excelled in working with Congress to pass a comprehensive energy plan. In arguing this, I examine how Carter was a leading proponent of energy legislation during his term. I show this by examining primary sources from the Jimmy Carter Presidential Library and secondary sources from authors whom have previously written about Carter. I use these sources to reveal how internal dialogue between members of Congress and the Carter White House was a successful one in passing the President’s initiatives. In the first chapter I focus on the environment in the 1970s by looking at energy policy prior to Carter and the change that took place in Congress post-Watergate. In the second chapter I examine how Carter initiated a national dialogue on energy policy and streamlined his initiative through Congress. My last chapter argues with views held by historians in the past that claim Carter was a “malaise” President who never led or had a good relationship with Congress. This thesis will change the views people have towards President Carter in his ability to work with Congress and passing meaningful energy legislation.
2014_HIST_05263638.pdf	2014	The ethnic profile of Major League Baseball has become diverse since its integration in 1947. The globalization and outsourcing of the sport has resulted in varying participation trends among different ethnicities. This study focuses on the drastically different participation trends of African Americans and Latin Americans in Major League Baseball, providing an analysis of the factors that are producing each. While historians have focused on one or the other, there has been little attempt to connect these two trends with one another. The opening chapter will provide a historical overview of African American and Latin American participation in Major League Baseball. Chapter two will examine the external factors shaping each trend, citing youth participation as the basis of major league participation rates. Chapter three will then look at the internal factors effecting each trend, focusing on big business in Major League Baseball and the profitability of recruiting. By examining the factors that are producing the decline in African American and increase in Latin American participation, this study argues that the two trends are closely related with one another through the internal and external factors causing each trend. The internal factors occurring within Major League Baseball and external factors produced outside of Major League baseball are intertwined producing an evolving cycle of African American decline and Latin American incline in participation.
2014_HIST_05265222.pdf	2014	"Resumén Mi estudio independiente analiza de como el arte funciona como un documento histórico, y los artistas como actores-históricos, individuos que han tenido un impacto profundo en la sociedad y la política. Para examinar este idea, estudio dos medios artísticos y épocas históricas especificas. Primero, los cineastas post-revolucionarias del ICAIC en Cuba, por cual el cine fue seleccionado explícitamente como una herramienta para promulgar valores e ideas específicas de la revolución lo que fue en este momento la reformación de una sociedad. Los cineastas trabajaron muy íntimamente con el gobierno. Estudio el trabajo de un cineasta: Tomás Gutiérrez Alea. En tres películas suyas, se puede ver la evolución de los esfuerzos del cine en solidificar la revolución con la creación de una narrativa histórica, como en Historias de la revolución (1960); la polarización de opinión popular contra los Estados Unidos, como en ¡Muerte al invasor! (1962); y finalmente con una investigación muy auto-consciente del proyecto revolucionario en Memorias de subdesarrollo (1968). Para contrastar con artistas que trabajan con el apoyo de su gobierno, mi segundo caso de estudio se enfoca en el trabajo de los dramaturgos de Nuevo Teatro Español, en particular el de Jerónimo López Mozo, durante la dictadura de Francisco Franco en los años sesenta y setenta. Se puede ver cómo él hizo un dramaturgia disidente contra un gobierno opresivo con alegoría y metáfora como en Los sedientos (1965); y con la puesta en escena de el masacre de Guernica durante la Guerra Civil como en Guernica (1968);y finalmente con una condenación de los años precedentes a la guerra como en Anarquía 36 (1971). Demuestro cómo debemos considerar tanto la producción artística y a artistas como una ley o una política como aspectos fundamentales de la historia."
2014_HIST_05278650.pdf	2014	The long, bloody history of the American Mafia has been researched by numerous historians over the course of several decades. The American public has grown increasingly infatuated with the Mafia in the last century because of the national media. The stories of infamous gangsters are told in newspapers and magazines as well as popular movies and plays. Most people associate the Mafia with cities such as New York, Chicago and Las Vegas. However, these are certainly not the only cities that have been a major factor in the American Mafia’s history. Cleveland, Ohio is overlooked by most researching the American Mafia. Beginning in the early twentieth century, organized crime in Cleveland affected the Mafia in many ways ranging from large scale bootleggers during Prohibition to invaluable government informants. Through the use of interviews, testimonies, police records and the most influential secondary sources, this thesis describes in great detail the impact organized crime in Cleveland, Ohio has had on the history of the American Mafia.
2014_HIST_05288281.pdf	2014	Beginning in the early 1920s, the Hindutva (“Hinduness”) movement has dominated conversations about religious identity and national religion in India. Born out of the regional nationalist movement in the western Indian state of Maharashtra, Hindutva has always coexisted regionally and across India with another, equally powerful cultural force—the Hindi film industry. The two have maintained an uneasy truce with one another in the years since Indian independence and the partition of the subcontinent. Each also engage in the work of “imagining” the nation—that is, creating the nation of India in the images they desire to be the dominant idea of what it means to be a “true” Indian. This thesis examines the historical narratives surrounding the imagined nation in both Hindutva and Hindi cinematic contexts, and embeds both of them in both a regional context and a larger, pan-Indian one. By focusing on three issues in Indian life that are important to both the Hindutva movement and Hindi cinema—native/foreign identities, urbanization, and the family—this essay teases out the ways in which Hindutva and Hindi film inform each other in the work of creating the nation and, depending on the historical moment, either run parallel or completely apart of one another’s ideas.
2014_HIST_05309519.pdf	2014	The 1960s marked a pivotal decade for the United States in terms of civil rights for African Americans and the efforts they utilized to seek changes in race relations. The black community employed a variety of methods to champion civil rights and changes in American values, one of which was black student activism. Drawing on institutional and social documents from the College, this Independent Study examines the ways in which black students challenged institutional values at The College of Wooster between the 1960s and the 1990s. Historians and scholars are increasingly examining black student activism of the 1960s and 1970s, often excluding black students’ efforts of the 1980s. By analyzing the evolution of black student activism at the College, this study links student activists’ efforts from the 1960s through the 1990s. Inherently contributing to the broader national historical perspective.
2014_HIST_05315532.pdf	2014	In this modern time we have developed a disconnect between our daily lives and agriculture. This has caused us as people to become uneducated in terms of agriculture unless having direct contact with the practice. In an attempt to explore the world of agriculture and to possibly educate those who do not have the opportunities to explore agriculture this project will explore the everyday life of a group of four farmers from rural Ohio. Specifically Morrow County, Ohio is examined historically to develop a backdrop of agriculture history in the area. After examining the area interviews were conducted with four farmers from the area each with a different sized farm, as well as different practices. These Interviews focused on the history of each farmer’s specific farm, their daily lives, and their opinions on three issues within agriculture. The three issues that are focused on are the affects of the government, women, and corporate farms on traditional family farms in Morrow County.
2014_HIST_05318447.pdf	2014	The story of Anne Boleyn and Henry VIII has been examined by many historians for almost 500 years. The rise and fall of the Boleyn family has been something that is puzzling to many people because of its fast and spectacular nature. However, many do not understand the amount of people contributing to the rise and fall of the family. This paper will look at the relationship between Henry and Anne in a different way. It will focus on the goals Henry and Anne hoped to accomplish together, separately, the goals of the people who surrounded them and what every person hoped to gain by aligning themselves correctly in the Tudor court. Tudor court political games would lead to the promotion and demotion of families and individuals. However, no family has risen and fallen like Anne and her family and that is because of the court and circumstances that surrounded them.
2014_HIST_05318585.pdf	2014	"Like many other Southern states recovering from the blows of the Civil War, the 1870s found North Carolina slowly rebuilding its infrastructures and attempting to adjust to post bellum society. The physical and economic effects of slavery were not eradicated during the Reconstruction era (1865 – 1877), and the practices of the former plantations still held the land in a faded southern grandeur. Born in a small town in the heart of tobacco-rich, northeastern North Carolina, the Harris brothers ¾ Osborne Jr. (1850-1932), Scotland (1869-1953), Cicero (1867-1940), Thomas (1873-1929), William (1871-?) Hilliard (1856-1930), and Governor Ellis, known as “G. Ellis” (1861—1933) ¾ were the grandsons of their former slave master, Thomas Whitmell Harris. Raised on the “Sunnyside” plantation, a 100-acre tract of land purchased by their father, Osborne Sr., from his father (and master), each of the brothers received primary-level education in a segregated, one-room school before matriculating at St. Augustine's Normal School, an institution founded by the Episcopal Church in 1867 to train the newly-manumitted slaves as teachers. These men asserted their rights to equality in the new American nation through their quest for education, land ownership, socio-political activity, and religious freedom. During a time of rising and increased racism, when much of the South was focused on undermining the rights guaranteed by the Reconstruction Amendments, the Harris brothers fought back. While many freedmen were reduced to a state of peonage, the Harris men represent the struggles of a rising black middle class, which would, after many trials, establish itself in America. For the purposes of this study, I would define members of the black middle class as those who are literate (and encouraged literacy for all black Americans), involved in their communities (particularly in the spiritual sphere), financially independent, politically active, and focused on their families. Black Americans seized these aspects of their identities to claim their independence from the cultural destruction of nearly four centuries of slavery. I would also consider these aspects as vehicles of both personal and community protest. Doris Harris Carroll, interview by author. Flint, MI. January 2013  Carroll, interview by author."
2014_HIST_05319030.pdf	2014	The conditions of the American Revolutionary War were unlike that of any previous eighteenth century European military conflict. Both the Continental and British armies were faced with logistical and tactical disadvantages that hindered their effectiveness. These disadvantages created a need for sophisticated military intelligence operations which could make up for shortcomings by providing each army with valuable information about enemy troop strengths, supplies, and intentions. The lack of value placed on intelligence during eighteenth century European warfare paired with the scarcity of written methodology on how to engage in intelligence gathering and espionage operations forced Patriot General George Washington and British General Sir Henry Clinton to innovate new techniques to gather and communicate intelligence more effectively. The conditions of the war would help change the views and values each man placed on intelligence. By the end of the war, both Washington and Clinton had created effective intelligence systems far superior to those previously seen in eighteenth century Europe. These men changed the way intelligence operations were viewed and conducted during times of war. This essay examines how the conditions of the Revolutionary War increased the need for intelligence operations and led to new techniques to gather and communicate intelligence, as well as how the views Clinton and Washington had towards intelligence changed throughout the course of the war.
2014_HIST_05333553.pdf	2014	The Black Death came to Europe in 1347 and in just three years devastated Europe, fundamentally changed the way society functioned, and killed more than one-third of the population. Historically, academics and scholars have studied this event by examining the societal, economic, and political impact of the Black Death on Europe as a whole. Recently however, the plague has increasingly been presented through personal histories. The history of the plague, its historical content and impact remain intact, but the author invents the thoughts and feelings of the character so the audience may sympathize and identify with him or her. This Independent Study follows this trend and examines the response people may have had to this disease in 1348 in Siena, Italy, where the plague hit particularly hard. Through four invented characters, Filippa di Giantommaso, Isacco di Trivoli, Ambrogio di Bergamo, and Oddo di Goffredo, a narrative is created that answers the question: how did the Sienese people respond to the Black Death? This thesis examines the fears, confusion, doubts, and hopes these characters may have had, and how they responded within the agency and constraints they had within Sienese society.  
2014_HIST_05334700.pdf	2014	This Senior Independent Study is an alternative proposal. The written portion investigates the role of a religious organization, the Episcopal Society for Cultural and Racial Unity, in promoting the integration of the Lovett School, a private school in Atlanta, Georgia. This essay also explores themes like white flight and the desegregation of the Atlanta Public School system. The second part is a curriculum designed for eleventh grade students. This curriculum includes lessons on Brown v. Board of Education and related cases, comparison between public and private desegregation, and school funding.
2014_HIST_05337338.pdf	2014	The Civil Rights Movement reached an all time high in the 1960’s, with goals such as desegregation and job equality combined with non-violent tactics the Civil Rights Movement was easily accessible. During this time period the higher education community took action to become more involved in the Black community. One way this was accomplished was through domestic student exchanges with Historically Black Colleges and Universities. While the objective of these exchanges differed at each institution one overarching goal was to experience and learn from a culture other than your own. This study focuses on exchanges between The College of Wooster and Miles College, Macalester College with both Morehouse College and Knoxville College and lastly between Amherst College and Morehouse College. By utilizing primary source material that focused on the exchanges this study examines the way that these exchanges affected not only the institutions but also the participants. Black student activism is increasingly becoming a popular topic among scholars, this study offers perspective and analysis on an often forgotten topic .
2014_HIST_05344100.pdf	2014	This thesis argues that the feminization of teaching occurred during the early national period in the United States as a result of a “deliberate reconciliation” of teaching and gendered norms for women’s work in a process that was gradual, generational, and built over time from the inside out. Early American female teachers, and not male reformers, facilitated the reconciliation process, which can be understood as a series of three overlapping stages. In the first stage, women established female academies as extensions of their homes. In the second stage, those female academies implemented apprenticeship programs for training their students as teachers. In the third stage, a second generation of women from those female academies became teachers in schools across the country or began their own educational establishments. Several well-known female educators, including Catharine Beecher and Emma Willard, provide evidence of this process.
2014_HIST_05346244.pdf	2014	During the early twentieth century, Los Angeles experienced a surge of evangelical Christianity within its city limits. With its emphasis on evangelism and having a personal relationship with Christ, evangelicalism became a notable religious option for Angelinos. This awakening contained four distinct events: the beginning of the Church of the Nazarene, the rise of Pentecostalism, the founding of the Bible Institute of Los Angeles, and the career of Aimee Semple McPherson. This study will examine how these individual events interacted with the city of Los Angeles as well as how the events related to each other. By looking at these key relationships, a broader sense of the evangelical movement can be obtained. My study is also informed by the current scholarly view that Los Angeles was a marketplace of religion during the early twentieth century. Using this marketplace analogy, I argue that Los Angeles evangelicalism functioned primarily on a tense relationship between theology and image.
2014_HIST_05357498.pdf	2014	" Historians who study the nineteenth century have focused on the Haitian Revolution and the significance of the insurrection on the rest of the world at the time. They have neglected the effects the Revolution had on post-revolution Haiti. I look at Haiti after the Revolution and more specifically, how Haitian leaders formed an unexpected alliance with British activists. I argue that this collaboration provided a strong, significant example for British abolitionists to use for the antislavery debates in the Haitian Revolution and its effects worldwide. I also highlight how British activists helped Haitian leaders during Haitian state formation. Education provided Haitian leaders with a quality to help in state formation, as well as relations with world powers, including Great Britain. The period following the Haitian Revolution has often overlooked, but it is important to analyze Haitian-British relations during the time in order to understand the abolitionism movement and Haitian state formation. 
2014_HIST_05367309.pdf	2014	During the 19th and early 20th centuries, the Åland Islands, under Russian rule, developed their own local identity.  Existing within the territory of foreign powers for more than a millennium, the small archipelago fought for its rights to control the islands during the First World War and managed to achieve autonomy for themselves.  This thesis examines how the Åland Islands represented an imperial crossroads in the Baltic Sea, which assisted in the construction of the Ålander identity.  While many historians have studied the Åland Islands as a model for peace.  I highlight the complexity of the conflict, and observe the Åland question from the political angle and the local perception.  By using an abundance of primary and secondary sources along with an oral history, I share an intricate story that dives into conflicts of geopolitics and identity.  Russian expansion into the Baltic culturally divided Russia from its gained territories.  From Russian sovereignty over the Åland Islands, the local population began to build its identity and desire for independence.  The Ålanders desires were discussed at the Paris Peace Conference and later in the League of Nations.  The complexity of the Åland question challenged international law, and perplexed politicians who sought to find a solution.  In addition, the development of the Åland question tested the newly established League of Nations, which created a resolution that was unprecedented for the time period.
2014_HIST_05368031.pdf	2014	During the late 19th and early 20th centuries in the United States, local history flourished as local historical societies and sites were established by wealthy business and community leaders. Today, though, the practice of local history is looked down upon by academics and others as a discipline of “amateurs” and possessing “antiquarian” ideas. This Independent Study examines the struggles faced by local history in the digital era through the development of the Ohio Veterans Home Museum in Sandusky, Ohio as a historical institution. The Independent Study has two components: written and digital portions. The written portion of the Independent Study assesses the construction of local history and its evolving relationship with both the academic and public sectors in the digital era. The digital component consists of a website designed for the Ohio Veterans Home Museum. This study argues that the success of local history depends upon its leaders re-imagining the past and the present to connect with a broader public. The growth of digital history provides local historical organizations the opportunity to facilitate a more diverse, global conversation with the public. Through the development of technological resources, local historical organization leaders possess the ability to redefine and sustain local history for future museum goers.
2014_HIST_05368050.pdf	2014	Naturalist George Bird Grinnell wrote a series of young adult adventure novels between 1899 and 1913 in response to a fear about the future of America’s masculine identity. In this Independent Study, I ask the question: how did the Young Jack series serve as one of the solutions to the white wealthy male’s perceived crisis of masculinity? Grinnell wrote the novels in response to this crisis that was occurring during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries in America. The Young Jack novels served as one of the means for the frontier clubsmen to abate their fears of a generation of effeminate young men, a disappearing frontier, and an increase in immigrant populations. To answer this question, I explored four main themes: boyhood, masculinity, wilderness, and whiteness. Through an analysis of the Young Jack series, I concluded that the novels presented Jack Danvers as the model for an ideal transformation from a young boy to an American man. The Young Jack series are an invaluable source which provide insight into the motives of the white wealthy men and the young American boys they hoped to influence.
2014_HIST_05369785.pdf	2014	This paper explores the evolution of J. M. Barrie's Peter Pan over the past 110 years, and how each manifestation represents the historical and social context of the period for which it was created. After discussing Barrie's biography and how his life impacted his creative choices, this paper considers three time periods in the story's evolution: the first decade, 1904-1914, when the story was originally developed on stage and in print; 1914-1954, when the story changed as it was portrayed on screen and in new interpretations on stage; and 1954-2014, when the story has seen the most change, with an opening in the copyright, allowing for a musical, new films, new literature and Disney franchises. Through analysis of the three primary media through which Peter Pan has been depicted—the stage, the page, and the screen—and the performers and companies that developed each project, one is able to gain insight into the audience for whom the production was created. Over the past 110 years, the story has changed from Barrie's original concept and texts, both in media and in tone. Each manifestation of the story retains elements of the original, but also incorporates the current interests and context of the society in which it is presented, and so the story never grows old.
2014_HIST_05370603.pdf	2014	This study focuses on American immigration to Israel or aliyah. The specific time frame of the project is the period after the establishment of the State of Israel. The idea of Jews making aliyah has been around for thousands of years. Returning to Eretz Yisrael is one of the 613 commandments in the Torah. While many Americans immigrate to Israel, it is more of a modern phenomenon. To understand a few factors and motivations for immigrating to Israel, I interviewed three people living in Israel and one rabbi living in the United States. Four themes emerged from the responses. Many of my findings were consistent with information presented in the literature review and theory chapter. From the responses, I also learned of the importance of organizational trips to Israel and the part they play in encouraging people to move. Overall, the biggest theme was identity and how it factored in the decision to move and make a home in Israel.   
2014_HIST_05371745.pdf	2014	This paper investigates the reactions of patients in the national leprosarium at Carville, Louisiana to the loss of their old identities and the gain of a new one as a patient during the middle of the 20th century. The patient identity was formed by isolation, stigma, community, and domesticity within the hospital. Over the course of their time in the hospital, residents rejected, embraced and worked to change the patient identity. They typically reacted in a combination of these ways. This paper uses memoirs, oral histories, and patient published newspapers to investigate questions of patient identity at Carville. The goal of this research is to identify major components of patient identity, how these shape the reactions of Carville residents to their patient status, and why patients reacted to their new identity in certain ways.
2014_HIST_05372124.pdf	2014	In the 1960s and 1970s the use of sterilization procedures as a form of family planning, left low-income and minority women vulnerable to coerced sterilization. The sterilization abuses that these women endured were the result of pejorative interpretations of the impoverished, that emerged from the political discussion about poverty in the 1960s. This Independent Study examines the effects of the interpretations of the causes of poverty, emerging in the 1950s and 1960s, on the autonomy of the low-income and minority women who used government aid. The writings of anthropologists and sociologists, such as Oscar Lewis and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, provided the background for the government poverty-relief programs. Exploring the definitions of low-income women in poverty, in these writings, reveals an explanation for poverty that focused on the reproductive behaviors of these women. These definitions of women in poverty incorporated race, gender, and class stereotypes about African American women that classified them as the undeserving poor. My independent study then examines the role of these characterizations of low-income women in the changing political landscape of the 1970s, when the writings of concerned scientists such as Paul Ehrlich, created an overpopulation crisis that made family planning an important part of government aid programs. The rise in sterilization abuse reveals that by focusing on the reproductive behaviors of low-income and minority women, the government policies and programs attempting to aid these women, marginalized them.
2014_HIST_05372566.pdf	2014	Many scholars have not seriously considered the history of Black women’s experience in predominantly White higher education institutions. This research places value on oral history as the method by which to gather first hand accounts of experiences of Black women in higher education after the Civil Rights-Black Power movement. This Independent Study project is a case study of nine Black female students experience at the College from 1971-1989. It explains how Black female students response to racism and sexism at The College of Wooster in the post-Civil Rights-Black Power Movement era. I show how their responses to racism changed over time through how they responded to their experiences with racial gendered oppressions. My research found that there are three strategies that these women used to respond to racism and sexism: deliberate avoidance, challenging stereotypes, and sister circles. These themes are examined through the framework of invisibility and visibility. This project reveals that not much has changed over a 50 year time period. What has changed is the Black female student’s response and reaction to racism and sexism.
2014_HIST_05372591.pdf	2014	Rape culture is like a disease that permeates all sectors of American society. It is historically rooted, inscribed in the law and exercised in the everyday. Since the insurgence of second-wave feminism in the late 1960s, feminists have worked tirelessly to bring attention to sexual assault as a socio-cultural dilemma. In this project, I attempt to track the development of feminist anti-rape discourse over time by applying historical discourse analyses to the specific works of Susan Brownmiller and Angela Davis. Using an intersectional feminist lens, I am able to engage a dialogue between the authors in order to demonstrate the ways that radical feminist anti-rape dialogue problematically racialized rape, resulting in backlash from black feminists. I use these frameworks to conduct an intersectional content critique of the modern-day feminist blogosphere in order to inquire questions about the ways that feminist anti-rape rhetoric has changed over time. Ultimately, my aim is to use these discursive historical progressions as a means to identify and critique normative rape culture narratives. By analyzing the racialized components of feminist anti-rape efforts that have existed for decades, I reflect upon my privileged position as a white American middle-class college student who is in search of more inclusive anti-rape efforts, free of the racism and classism that is often a repercussion of these dialogues.
2014_HIST_05372593.pdf	2014	This Independent Study illuminates the female sexual experience during World War II in the Soviet Union. Focusing on three varying areas of sexuality – on the home front, on the front lines, and in German-occupied territories – this thesis hopes to draw a more accurate picture of the sexual interactions of Soviet women, and the varying nature of such relationships, in order to show what these encounters looked like during the Second World War. While I emphasize consensual relationships over forced, “consensual” refers to unforced sexual interactions, there is some discussion of forced encounters, i.e. sexual harassment or rape that is necessary to include especially in the second and third chapters. Three main sources are utilized in this thesis: cinema, memoirs, and historiography. Cinema and memoirs are relied on greatly, due to the lack of scholarship on the topic, in order to construct a more comprehensive work of the Soviet female sexual experience during The Great Patriotic War.
2014_HIST_05372753.pdf	2014	In 1964 the Beatles arrived in the United States, jumpstarting their commercial and international careers with their mop-top haircuts and matching, tailored suits. With their introduction to a new consumer market, their image evolved in accordance to the promotional techniques of the nation’s press, which emphasized the band members’ working-class background, irreverent sense of humor, and young age. The purpose of this thesis is to examine the formative years of the band to show how the band’s level of stardom changed in accordance to the perception of their image, the latter of which being heavily influenced by the British musical press. Furthermore, this paper examines how the socioeconomic and cultural context in Britain during the 1950s affected the perception of the Beatles’ music. This research utilizes the most widely circulated British music weekly journals, with a particular focus on the juxtaposition between Mersey Beat and Melody Maker, being two of the most recognized music weeklies within their particular genre, and each addressing the Beatles phenomenon with very different approaches.
2014_HIST_05372899.pdf	2014	The evolution of hitchhiking in America during the 20th century sheds light on larger cultural trends galvanized by ideas of community. Its dramatic decline as a realistic mode of transportation since the early 1970s is indicative of Americans’ ever growing fear of strangers. This project traces the lenses that Americans have used to judge hitchhiking as a safe or dangerous activity in the 20th century. These lenses are organized into three main categories: hitchhiking for a purpose, hitchhiking as an expression of freedom, and hitchhiking as a threat to one’s safety. Each of these lenses emerged as a result of the social and political concerns that gripped Americans when they were implemented; they are distinct ideas but also temporally overlapping. My aim in dissecting these lenses is to show how hitchhiking began as an activity whose organizing principle was community. Gradually, though, middlebrow America began to fear hitchhiking as it was adopted by a youth culture that used movement as an expression of its rebellious ideologies. This fear persists today, spurred by stereotypes of hitchhikers that are disseminated through technological innovations. These innovations have in turn influenced our notion of community.
2014_HIST_05374101.pdf	2014	This paper examines failed attempts by three separate Republican Pennsylvanian governors to privatize the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board (PLCB). Despite their efforts, the PLCB has never been fully privatized and is still in complete control of alcohol sales in the state. This is due primarily to a failure by proponents to define the issue, institutional roadblocks in the Pennsylvania General Assembly, and major missteps in political communication by the separate administrations.
2014_HIST_05374167.pdf	2014	This paper explores how the British television show Doctor Who addresses controversial subjects, specifically race and multiculturalism. Recently, the show has been known for promoting progressive thinking and somewhat liberal ideas. What this looks to explore is whether or not that has always been the case. The show has been on the air for fifty years and has received a variety of reactions. Some claim the show is incredibly tolerant while others insist it is overtly racist. This text deals specifically with Immigration and racism in Great Britain during the 1960s and uses the 1963 and 1964 seasons of Doctor Who in order to draw parallels between how the show handles these in relation to the British public. The 2006-2007 seasons, which were the first to feature a black companion, are also analyzed to provide a change over time analysis and investigate whether or not the show is consistent in how it addresses race, and if it takes a positive stance on promoting tolerance and racial equality.
2014_HIST_05374172.pdf	2014	In October of 1971, students from the Black Student Association, Wooster Christian Fellowship, and their allies boycotted The College of Wooster’s Homecoming. They protested in response to racial discrimination in the Athletic Department and the larger campus. In both a documentary and a written essay, I explore why the Boycott happened at this historical moment. This Independent Study centers on the Homecoming Boycott and its relationship to youth culture, student activism, and Black student experience and movements at the College in the late 60s and early 70s. I use oral histories and archives from Special Collections as an entryway into understanding campus climate during this period. In the first chapter, I lay out a narrative of the Homecoming Boycott. In the second chapter, I delve deeper into the historical moment that produced the Boycott. The final chapter is about my filmmaking process and is written in the style of an informal blog. The Boycott came at a tenuous moment in Wooster history that arose from anti-war protests, a dramatic increase in the number of Black students, general student unrest, the Kent State shootings, and an influx of Black activism, all of which created anger, discomfort, and excitement on campus. I argue that the Homecoming Boycott was representative of this era of upheaval and was the outcome of Black student movements at the College in the late 1960s and early 1970s. In a “post-racial” age of “colorblindness,” student activism becomes all the more necessary. I hope my IS will spark further discussions on race and activism in the past and present and inspire action to combat institutional racism.
2014_HIST_05377919.pdf	2014	Observing how Jewish Americans remember the Holocaust, through memorialization, or lack thereof, is important because the next generations will determine the future of Holocaust memory in the United States. The manner in which Jews memorialize the Holocaust (through physical or other means) is indicative of their relationship with each other and their shared past. Therefore, the purpose of this project is to explore the memorialization of the Holocaust in American synagogues as a way of thinking about how collective memory changes and passes on in Jewish American communities. In the aftermath of the Holocaust, Jews struggled to rebuild their lives and reestablish their place in the world. The first chapter explores the progression of the relationship between Jews, the Holocaust, and the American people from immigration to the United States and the trial of Adolf Eichmann, to the Civil Rights movement and the establishment of the Unites States Holocaust Memorial Museum. The second chapter explores the struggles of Jews to form a Jewish American identity by cooperating with other Jewish communities throughout the country. Lastly, the third chapter uses six interviews of Jews from New York and Ohio to show how community ties foster remembrance. The closeness of the community dictates the type and extent of Holocaust remembrance passed on from generation to generation. It is important that we understand how Holocaust memory is passed on so future generations can continue to memorialize the Holocaust in a respectful and meaningful way.
2015_HIST_06760337.pdf	2015	This study explores the idea of governmental power in the dystopian works The Time Machine (H. G. Wells, 1895), We (Yevgeny Zamyatin, 1924), Brave New World (Aldous Huxley, 1932), Anthem (Ayn Rand, 1938), and Nineteen Eighty Four (George Orwell, 1948) in an attempt to contextualize these novels in history. This is done through identification of three major themes of government control: class divisions, reproductive freedom, and propaganda methods, all of which demonstrate control over the individual by the government. Each chapter consists of examples and evidence from the novels for the theme followed by a comparison of historical treatment of these issues during the lifetime of the author to understand how the dystopian genre was influenced by the author’s experiences. All of this comes together to show that dystopias are based on extreme versions of real issues that could be identified during the time period in which the author was writing.
2015_HIST_06779089.pdf	2015	Since their conception, women’s magazines have been selling images and messages of domestic culture to readers. In the 1950s, the advertising in Ladies Home Journal outlined a specific recipe for American culture and product consumption for white, middle class, housewives. Current scholarship approaches the 1950s, and specifically the female experience, mostly from a home based lens. This study reexamines the ads in the Ladies Home Journal between 1950 and 1959 for traces of romance in home cleaning and beauty advertisements. In this study, romance emerged as an important component of the messages conveyed to women through ads. The beautiful home, beautiful self, and beautiful romance acted together in the Ladies Home Journal, particularly for women who’s primary role was in the home, as a measurement of happiness.
2015_HIST_06813558.pdf	2015	This Independent Study is meant to be a comprehensive analysis of three major animation studios and their works in the 20th century, matched with an analysis of their overlying effects in international markets. I have chosen to study Disney, Warner Bros. and MGM instead of all of the known Hollywood animation studios, as these three studios have the largest effects on history. I analyze different films and directors to build a complex interlinking narrative that shows how icons in cultures are created and what their effects are on the world by looking at foreign animation.
2015_HIST_06819181.pdf	2015	The following Senior Independent Study examines the expanded involvement of white southern women during and after the American Civil War through the unwitting transformation of traditionally conservative ideals and expectations of womanhood. The creation of Ladies Memorial Associations and the United Daughters of the Confederacy enabled elite southern women to have an impact on how the ideals of the Confederacy were remembered and carried on to future generations. This Senior I.S. focuses on the monuments that were build, how Confederate Memorial Days were organized, and the extent of involvement that women-ran memorial associations had in the rearing of children. The research in this project also examines the success of southern women’s efforts to preserve the overall legacy of the Confederacy. Despite these women’s increased presence in the public sphere being seen as contradictory to the conservative society they lived in, they legitimized their actions under the pretense that they were maintaining traditional female roles and the conservative, patriarchal ideals of the Confederate States of America.
2015_HIST_06821621.pdf	2015	"My Senior Independent Thesis is a study in the application of religious studies theory to the historical case study of early Repbulican Turkey. I am looking at questions of secularism as it is exhibited in modernization, Civil Religion and the public sphere. In particular, I am looking at the complex ways that secularism impacts and defines both religious and political movements. My project aims to deconstruct the dominant theory of secularism, and show its flaws in defining the relation between political systems and public religion. Specifically, I am studying the Kemalist political movement in the early 1920’s that led to the establishment of the Turkish Republic in 1923. The project is looking at the early Turkish Republic and its interaction with established Islamic communities in Anatolia at the time. Furthermore, the Turkish revolution exhibited fundamentally religious rights through indoctrination, public rituals, and utopian ideologies. The trend in historiography is to examine Atatürk and his political movement as “secular.” Secularism as it relates to the Turkish Revolution needs to undergo a redefinition. It no longer holds significance in fully articulating the rise of functional differentiation because of the active ways in which the institutionalized hierarchy of the political movement attempted to control the public sphere and permeate all realms of society. In addition, the classification of the Turkish Republic as “secular” requires the decline and marginalization of established religion in Turkey at the time. The evidence however, maintains the prominence of religious institutions in the lives of the Turkish people throughout the Republican era. "
2015_HIST_06825164.pdf	2015	1890-1930 was a time of major social and cultural shifts as the Victorian conventions clashed with progressive and changing ideas of gender, race, and class, resulting in the liberated American New Woman. This thesis examines the transition of the opportunities for increased physical movement for women allotted by the popularization of the brassiere, bicycle, and access to higher education. Examining the brassiere and bicycles’ impact on women’s liberation lends insight into how the physical placement and movement of female bodies confronted gender norms, while expansion of women’s education made women intellectual threats to the patriarchal structure. My analysis of advertisements for corsets, brassieres, bicycles, and education courses in Ladies’ Home Journal from 1890-1920 lets me consider how and why the social construction of gender roles changed. I also examine medical texts written by both men and women about women’s bodies, along with personal accounts in memoirs, course catalogues, and forms of popular media in order to deduct what the popular perception of corsets, brassieres, bicycles, and women’s higher education were over time, and to trace this shift in terms of women’s movement from the private to public sphere of influence. Ultimately, anxiety around women’s bodies moving into the public and historically masculine sphere confronted socially and historically constructed expectations of gender, gendered movement, and ownership of space.
2015_HIST_06825802.pdf	2015	"Science fiction films of the 1950s illustrated the complexities of Cold War America following World War II.  While many view the culture of the 1950s as characterized by conformity, paranoia, and anti-communism, science fiction films present a more complicated narrative of that period.  By analyzing science fiction films throughout the 1950s, this study identifies the ways that science fiction filmmakers and audiences responded to the various Cold War threats of nuclear weapons, conformity, and communism.  These three threats characterized the culture of the 1950s, and through science fiction films, filmmakers were able to present narratives that both reinforced and subverted social norms of the 1950s.  "
2015_HIST_06851782.pdf	2015	This study looks closely at three women who disguised themselves as men to fight in the American Civil War and how they represented a vast social change for women during the mid-nineteenth century. The war brought new opportunities for multitudes of people even women, who are often overlooked in war. While female soldiers are exceptional examples of women changing their circumstances they were not the only ones. Women found new roles, jobs and passions outside of fighting as nurses, becoming sole providers for families and taking over the jobs men left behind. The women who fought as soldiers were among many women who were able to take advantage of the new opportunities given to them to step outside of the traditional female roles.
2015_HIST_06856016.pdf	2015	"Slum growth has outpaced urbanization in the global south and slums in inner cities are expanding at a higher rate than suburban expansion. For example, São Paulo’s favelas were a mere 1.2 percent of the city’s total population in 1973, but 19.8 percent in 1993 and grew at an explosive rate of 16.4 percent annually during the 1990s. By 2015 Sub Saharan Africa will have 332 million slum-dwellers, a number that will continue to double every 15 years. The evidence of abject poverty is manifested in the production of these informal settlements and their constant expansion. The increase in the growth of slums highlights a push of people into cities and a clear need of the poor to be closer to sources of income and economic opportunities. Within the context of development, race and class, my Independent Study Project is a comparative analysis of informal settlements in Brazil and South Africa. Brazil and South Africa are among the fastest growing economies in the global south, and are members of BRICS - an association of five emerging world economies. My aim is to understand the present using a historical examination of how these informal settlements came to be “produced” as a result of what I have identified as themes of historical division and contemporary exclusion. I have chosen two cities in Brazil and South Africa for my research: Rio de Janeiro and Johannesburg. I examine interventionist approaches with regards to the informal settlements in these cities, and how reformation and renewal policies have impacted them. My conclusions are that state policy in Brazil and South Africa has continued to directly affect the growth and expansion of informal settlement, within the context of race, class and poverty. Mike Davis, Planet of Slums, Reprint edition (London ; New York: Verso, 2007).22  Ibid.25"
2015_HIST_06859593.pdf	2015	Abstract: In my work, I examine the black oppression by white societies in the United States and England, and how this oppression leads to and affects the actions of rioters. I argue that white society the justified the oppression of blacks by “othering” the black community. This “othering” defined blacks as “criminals,” “savages” and “thugs” in order to make the black community seem like something to be feared, justifying the brutal practices of the police. Portraying the black community as “lazy” also allowed the white community to justify the economic oppression of black communities instead of devoting funds to support programs that would help black communities. The government ignored black communities as poor blacks crowded into urban ghettos. I argue that black people were frustrated that white society did not treat blacks as equal citizens and that their lives did not matter to white society. Both white and black communities struggled with “identity” with white society basing their identity off the oppression of the black community and the black community being unable to be accepted as equals. With a catalyst, the black community rioted in an effort to draw attention to their oppression. The violence of the rioters was directed at their oppressors (police and other citizens) or symbols of their oppression (stores and businesses). The state believed rioters were rioting simply because they were criminal, and did not address the economic or “othering” issues that led to rioting. The media portrayed rioters as criminals who were rioting for fun, and paid little attention to the cause of the riots. This left the black communities still oppressed following the riots, because “othering” had justified their oppression to white society.   
2015_HIST_06868079.pdf	2015	In 1559 when Elizabeth I became Queen of England, her country was on the brink of great social and political changes that she used to her advantage. Elizabeth facilitated the transition of her elite class from their feudal traditions to the modern notion of the courtier through her emphasis on Courtly manners, such as dance. Dance played an important role in Elizabethan England since it was prominent at Court, in the country, and even on the stage. This thesis examines Elizabeth’s crafting of power through dance and its reflection in popular culture, such as Shakespeare. It also investigates the social and political importance of being a proficient dancer at Court, emphasizing the idea of performing one’s status. Elizabeth’s subtle, yet controlled methods of crafting power linked proper manners and dancing to social status, allowing her Court members to prove their own worth and simultaneously fit her image of royalty. While the performative nature of dance played an important function at Court, it was also utilized on the stage, mixing with traditional country-dances to create metaphorical meanings. The sundry uses of dance reflected Elizabethan culture and Elizabeth’s cultivation of the activity as a tool of power. 
2015_HIST_06868361.pdf	2015	As the International Olympic Committee (IOC) began their search for the next host of the Summer Olympic Games in 1968, general concern arose over which of the four cities: Detroit, Mexico City, Lyons, and Buenos Aries were most qualified to obtain this honor.  Through rigorous researching over each city, Mexico City became regarded as the most qualified location to host the 1968 Olympic Games.  Following the IOC’s decision, countries began screaming, because of trepidation, at the top of their lungs.  Ultimately, the IOC’s decision was finalized and the worried countries would have to wait until the end of these Olympic Games in order to determine what effects altitude had on athletes performance capabilities.  Concluding the final sporting events, scientists and doctors deeply anticipated the opportunity to begin researching the effects of altitude on athletes.  Their research concluded that training at high altitude positively influenced an endurance athlete’s physical performance.  This decision by the IOC led to the development of the most recognizable training method in the sport of distance running, high altitude training.         
2015_HIST_06869185.pdf	2015	This study compares and contrasts American participation in the Vietnam War and the Philippine-American War in order to isolate and determine what specific factors contribute towards a favorable outcome in a modern counterinsurgency campaign. I argue that the success of American counterinsurgency campaigns is determined by a combination of favorable circumstantial or contextual factors along with an appropriate set of counterinsurgency measures. In order to do so, I compare and contrast the contextual factors that affected the outcomes of both the Vietnam War and the Philippine-American War. These factors are analyzed in terms of their significance (whether negative or positive) on the campaign in question. I also explore the efficacy of various counterinsurgency efforts undertaken in both campaigns.  I find that the outcome of an American counterinsurgency campaign in the modern era is determined by a few main factors. One is whether or not the United States is able to conduct a counterinsurgency campaign without being subjected to political pressures that force a change in policy or strategy. Additionally, the U.S. government and the U.S. military must be capable of and willing to adapt to the local conditions of specific insurgency.
2015_HIST_06873394.pdf	2015	Since the beginning of the United States, Americans have been interested in the world around them. This study focuses on the development of U.S. global engagement, the myriad ways in which the country interacts with the rest of the world. In particular, it is interested in how the country rose to the status of a superpower. Global engagement has long been a subject of interest for scholars. However, when they examine the 20th century, one of the most important periods for the development of global engagement, they tend to focus on the impact of World War Two. In doing so, the scholars neglect to study World War One. I believe that World War One was an important moment both for the United States and the world as a whole. Thus, this study uses the First World War as a focal point to measure how global engagement has changed and remained the same. Using the metaphor of the United States travelling on a path of global engagement, I find that global engagement has largely been a process of continuity. The behaviors that characterize the United States today have their roots at the beginning of the country. World War One, however, was still important. It led to internal and external changes that accelerated the United States down the path to its current status as a superpower. This study draws a number of important conclusions. First, the United States had a complex relationship with Britain, fraught with both tension and cooperation. In the end, the Americans took the reins of a global system formed by the British. Finally, the concept of the United States existing in isolation in its early decades is largely a myth. Global engagement has long been important to Americans. It should remain important to them today as well.
2015_HIST_06879359.pdf	2015	This study examines the importance of the sugar industry in the development of the Portuguese Empire. Through the introduction of sugarcane into its colonies, the Kingdom of Portugal was able to finance its imperial ventures and incorporate the greater Atlantic into a Eurocentric economy. In order to justify its expansion, the kingdom drew upon the Crusader Mentality, this being the desire of Portugal to conduct territorial expansion against non-Christian peoples. To do so, the mentality was shifted under the Aviz dynasty to justify overseas endeavors, having formally been a motivation for conquest within the Iberian Peninsula. By introducing sugarcane into the Atlantic, the Portuguese not only established the foundation of European imperialism, they also created the triangular trade system between Europe, Africa, and the Americas. These goals were not accomplished by Portugal alone however. To successfully establish an Atlantic sugar industry, the kingdom drew upon support from other nationalities of the “Atlantic periphery. Thanks to sugarcane cultivation, Portugal altered the methods Europe utilized to conduct global exchange, reforging them to better suit itself and other nations upon the Atlantic.
2015_HIST_06879370.pdf	2015	The Cleveland Browns have been one of the landmark professional football teams dating back to their establishment in 1946. They have had a long history of tradition and success in the National Football League. In recent times, though, the team has been extremely unsuccessful. After the franchise returned to Cleveland in 1999 as an expansion team, the team had a goal to become a Super Bowl caliber team within five years. However, they did not achieve this objective. The purpose of this study is to show why this did not happen. One of the major reasons for this was due to the choices that were made by the team’s front office. They made poor managerial decisions and player personnel selections through the NFL Draft and free agency. Through the use of newspaper articles, documentaries, books and interviews, this thesis explains what went wrong for the Browns and what the team’s front office should have done.
2015_HIST_06879625.pdf	2015	"This paper is sectioned into four chapters. Each chapter is designed to aid the overall argument, which is through the spread of Russian organized crime through globalization.             The first chapter discusses four key authors that have written books over this topic. I review the four authors, and show their views towards this subject. This aids the cohesive paper by offering outside opinions of the subject at hand. The majority have the view that the Russian mafia is spreading globally and inhabiting areas such as the United States. However, one source, by two authors, does not agree that the Russian mafia has infiltrated the United States.             The next chapter delves into locations around the world that have Russian organized crime activity. Then, I go into specific detail on one group called the Solntsevskaya Bratva. It is the largest group of Russian organized crime and offers insightful information on business tactics and locations. Lastly, I look at only the United States, to show key figures that have contributed to the help of spreading organized crime to location abroad."
2015_HIST_06880341.pdf	2015	The central question driving this thesis is: “How did the advancement of military technologies 1900 through the end of the Great War in 1918 affect the ethical relationship of combatants in wartime?” This paper looks at personal diary entries, philosophical papers, and historical analyses, among other sources to attempt to determine the effects of these growing technologies. This question is important because it shapes the entirety of how we judge the ethical validity of the relations and interactions of soldiers in and out of the war zone during the First World War. The changing landscape of warfare has brought to the forefront a large array of ethical questions. No longer does an individual have to necessarily run across open ground in order to defeat an enemy. After the implementation of the automatic rifle and the technologies that followed, it was possible to kill the enemy without necessarily exposing oneself to danger.  Certainly this is a different landscape than that which the participants of the previous wars saw; since the Great War was one in which thousands of men were forced to lay down their lives in an attempt to move a few feet. Due to the advancement of military technologies, the risk of exposing oneself to the enemy was greater than ever before. This leads to several ethical conundrums that I wish to explore. Through analysis and research the paper aims to show that although the nature of the obligations may have changed, a man, on either side of the conflict, retained the obligation to act in an ethical fashion in their interactions with the other and that this ethical obligation is well described by the Just War tradition. While the technologies may have evolved, Just War remained steadfast against the pressure to exit from the war a standard theory of War in the modern realm of warfare ethics.
2015_HIST_06880544.pdf	2015	Northern Irelands Civil Rights movement, the IRA, and the regional violence are what characterize it in the 1960s The following paper prefaces its larger point of contention with a look at the legacy of 20th century civil disobedience in Northern Ireland prior to the 1960s. Next, this paper shifts its focus onto the larger role and significance of the Provisional Irish Republican Army with a conclusion centered on the events of Bloody Sunday. Ultimately, this work suggests that the transformative nature of politics in Ireland during this period warrant a greater level of attention than normally given to it. Through careful analysis of key moments in the 1960s one is able to see the greater significance behind moments that led not only to the rise of Sinn Fein but also the collapse of major systems of government. While the violent nature of the region is important to ones understanding of the socio-cultural experience of Northern Ireland at the time it by no means defines the period. The Northern Ireland seen today looks much differently than the one found in the 1960s thanks in part to the efforts of likeminded Irish Republicans.
2015_HIST_06880572.pdf	2015	This research examines federally mandated, off-reservation boarding schools and the experiences of American Indian women who attended them. The goal of these institutions was to assimilate American Indians and eradicate Native culture within a few generations of education. Women educated at these schools learned training that limited them socially and economically if they chose to join white society. Return to their native communities often resulted in rejection because of their lack years of assimilation. Women occupied a liminal space, belonging neither to white American society nor their Native society. This study compares this education with the education received by women who did grow up in their respective cultures. Coming of age rituals are a common practice in North American Indian tribes and are essential in the formation of identity and community; two essential steps in self-growth that women who attended boarding schools were limited in achieving. 
2015_HIST_06880765.pdf	2015	 This research essay looks at Japanese baseball players who embodied samurai qualities while playing in the United States. Specifically, it looks at how Masanori Murakami in 1965-1966, Hideo Nomo in 1994, and Hideki Irabu from 1997-1999 embodied samurai qualities of courage, loyalty, and honor. While playing for the San Francisco Giants, Murakami demonstrated he had to courage to prevail over the turmoil of leaving his native land, Japan, while still managing to have a successful season while pitching for the Giants. Similarly, Hideo Nomo showed courage by leaving Japan to play for the Los Angeles Dodgers while experiencing great success as a pitcher, earning the National League Rookie of the Year Award. His success on the field exemplified his loyalty to the Dodgers and honor to Japan by being their baseball ambassador in the U.S. Lastly, Hideki Irabu, who played for the New York Yankees, did not have the same success as his predecessors due to his temper and ill-behavior that negatively impacted his career. However, his recent suicide in 2011 showed samurai-like honor he embodied to acknowledge the death of his former owner of the Yankees, George Steinbrenner, due to the fact he always supported Irabu. Analysis of these players came from a variety of newspaper articles to show how they embodied these samurai qualities. The larger points of this research shows evidence that these players are differing away from traditional Japanese values of conformity and instead are adopting American values of individuality.
2015_HIST_06881437.pdf	2015	Both Rudyard Kipling and Jean de Brunhoff are European men who are known for their adored children’s books, The Jungle Book and Babar, respectively. In My Independent Study, I ask the question, to what extent can children’s literature be used as a viable primary sources that contribute to an overall understanding of both history and the authors’ individual worlds? I began my research my studying the colonial and imperial systems of both Britain and France in order to understand the driving factors and goals of each empire. From there, I research my two authors in order to fully understand what shaped them into the authors of The Jungle Book and Babar; my decision on these two books was based off their preexisting connections with colonialism and imperialism. My final research comprised of literary critics and theorists, who specialized on each author, in order to build a strong argument. Following my analysis, I concluded that children’s books, such as The Jungle Book and Babar are not only viable primary sources, but reveal complexities that parallel both the ideas of each nation’s colonial mission as well as characteristics of the authors themselves. The Jungle Book and Babar reveal that children’s books have the potential to hold immense amount of complexities in relation to their times and to their authors, making them essential historical primary sources.
2015_HIST_06881636.pdf	2015	My independent study focuses on the development and impact of investigative journalism. I look to analyze key investigative pieces that have shaped investigative journalism’s development. The Spanish American War, Muckraking, and the Watergate scandal are all journalistic moments that have exemplified developments in investigative journalism. Technology has also played a crucial role in developing investigative journalism. Through a case study, I look to explain how the impact of investigative reports is utilized to strengthen American democracy.
2015_HIST_06881646.pdf	2015	Medicare has been one of the most important acts that have been passed in United States history. This program has been central to improving the quality of livelihood for our elderly since 1965. The purpose of this study is to show how difficult it was to create the document and make the proper adjustments over the years to provide quality, affordable health care. A major reason for the development of the program comes from the role of the President. The reform of Medicare would depend on the ability to control rising medical costs, ability to enact proper legislation, and interest in developing proper health care for the citizens.
2015_HIST_06883701.pdf	2015	"Abstract This paper looks at the development of strategic bombing from its inception at the end of the First World War to the end of the air war over Europe in the Second World War. This paper argues that although strategic bombing did not meet all expectations, the campaign over Europe between 1940 and 1945 was successful. This is accomplished by examining public, military, and political expectations of strategic bombing during the interwar period, looking at how early air war theorists influenced the development of US Army Air Service (and its successors’) doctrine, which in turn influenced the strategic plans for the onset of the Second World War. Finally, the effects of the Western Allies’ strategic bombing campaign over Europe during the Second World War are analyzed by looking at Germany’s ability to wage war throughout the campaign. By demonstrating that the strategic bombing campaign did have a major impact upon the war in Europe, this research paper determines that the campaign was successful."
2015_HIST_06885439.pdf	2015	During the Great Depression, the federal government established several arts programs as part of the New Deal. The Treasury Section of Fine Arts employed artists to primarily produce murals in post offices around the country. One of the most prominent themes in these murals is progress. This project explores three case studies of post offices in Ohio. Chapter one examines the Amherst post office, which features pioneers crossing the Ohio River on a barge and explores the social roles before looking at the frontier thesis as embraced by the section administrator Edward Bruce. The second chapter examines Orrville’s post office mural, which depicts the founding of the town, and then looks at how the artist situated national themes of progress within this local context. The third chapter examines the two murals of Warren, which depict the past and present of the steel industry in the town, focusing on the theme of technological progress between the two murals. Ultimately, the project brings out the theme of progress present in each work and contextualizes it in Turner’s frontier thesis.
2015_HIST_06886320.pdf	2015	"Abstract This paper provides a review and analysis of the role of espionage during the Revolutionary War, focusing on the impact of the Culper Ring in New York. As a During the Revolutionary War, the Culper Spy ring provided vital intelligence to General Washington, which allowed him to outmaneuver his enemies and attack them strategically when they least expected it. Without the use of espionage and the formation of the Culper Ring, the American army would have suffered defeat during the American Revolution."
2015_HIST_06915478.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study is to illuminate the nature of legislative reform and its intertwining relationship with civil unrest in the second century of the Roman Republic. Focusing on the historical narratives written by authors born in the ancient Roman world, this study examines the nature of morality in political rhetoric. In the exploration of political rhetoric the argument reveals that the foundations of the republic, based in ancestral customs, were largely vulnerable to the wills of the privileged. The significance of the study touches on 3 main aspects. The first is the development of a standardized morality. The second main aspect examines that the survival of the standardized morality, despite the devastation of the Senate in the Second Punic War, demonstrated that morality was passed down in the institution of the Senate, rather then in individual Senators. The third aspect examines how the standardization of morality in the Senate was, despite its intent to prevent immorality, the very source of immorality that inspired the reforms and forced the civil unrest.  
2015_HIST_07045829.pdf	2015	This study examines the Suez Crisis of 1956. In July of 1956, President Gamal Abdel Nasser ordered Egyptian forces to seize control of the Suez Canal, thereby nationalizing the Canal. This was a bold move for a relatively young leader, one with significant risk of not just backlash but potential to destabilize the as yet fledgling Egyptian Republic. Britain's response was immediate, outrage and condemnation. The British government first sought to enlist the support of the United States to publicly shame Nasser for the move, coupled with efforts to force Nasser to re-internationalize the Canal through a UN resolution. British Prime Minister Eden abandoned this course of action when it became clear that he could not rely on the US to support the British position. Consequently, Eden conspired with France and Israel to invade Egypt under false pretense in an effort to reclaim the Canal and depose Nasser.
2015_HIST_07058789.pdf	2015	" During the seventeenth century English colonist John Smith wrote of his presence in the New World in the Generall Historie of Virginia, New-England, and the Summer Isles. Before voyaging to the New World Smith and other colonists came to Virginia with the expectation Virginia was an Edenic paradise full of abundance and natural resources.  They thought Virginia was similar to the biblical image of the Garden of Eden.  Once the colonists landed in Virginia the reality was that Virginia was a wild, untamed, and uncivilized place and needed to be controlled by Englishmen.  Events like the attack on Cape Henry, the Starving Times, and the Massacre of 1622 all contributed to the colonists’ changing views of Virginia and the native people, which had a direct effect on the colonists’ relationship with the Algonquin Native Americans.  I explore this relationship through the themes of trade, conquest, and religion. 
2015_HIST_07297261.pdf	2015	This project seeks to better understand the sinister cultural impacts of nuclear weapons in America through its literature and that literature’s attempts to resist the oppressive, atomizing structures that the nuclear epitomizes. Through a reading of three postmodern novels: Thomas Pynchon's 1973 Gravity’s Rainbow, Don DeLillo’s 1986 White Noise, and David Foster Wallace’s 1996 Infinite Jest, this project explores the relationship between the movement and nuclear weapons. In doing so, it calls for a new historical understanding of America’s engagement with nuclear weapons throughout the latter half of the twentieth century. This perceptual shift reveals a far deeper entanglement with nuclear weapons than many historical accounts suggest and requires us to reckon with postmodern literature as a form specifically of and for the nuclear age.
2016_HIST_07889608.pdf	2016	This thesis uses a combination of folklore theory, Italian history, and humoral medical traditions to investigate the Tale of Tales for their references to medicine, pregnancy, and the functions of the body. I argue that the understanding of medicine and the human body, though changing to be more accurate due to the anatomists of the late Renaissance, was so rooted in inaccurate Galenic beliefs that one can find numerous convolutions of medicine and magic in Basile’s work, particularly in regards to the digestive and reproductive systems. By using folklore theory and placing the Tale of Tales in its geographical and political settings, and analyzing it through the lens of medical history, I attempt to determine the difference between what Early Modern people knew and what they still believed.
2015_HIST_07938003.pdf	2015	This thesis looks at sauerkraut and how it relates to German identity. It follows sauerkraut’s path from Asia, traveling through Europe and explores its use in Germany before continuing to the United States. Sauerkraut is representative of the assimilation and acculturation German immigrants experienced once arriving in the United States during the late 19th century. This thesis finds that sauerkraut goes from a non-German identity in Germany, to a deeply negative German association in 19th century America, and finally becomes an American food that is used in American grass roots movements of Locavore, fermentation and traditional food. The communities that make up these food movements are not typically scientists but consumers of the industrialized food system who wish to promote their alternative agrifood agendas. Sauerkraut is used as a political protest against the industrialized food system, which is only possible because of its’ Americanized nature. This is particularly interesting because of the patterns involved with a particular ethnic group assimilating into the dominant mainstream culture.
2016_HIST_08279573.pdf	2016	This Independent Study traces the changing notions of what makes a superhero “super” throughout periods in American history. By doing three case studies on popular heroes in distinct eras, this study reveals that superhero comics have been growing steadily more overtly political, in ways that are increasingly subversive. I approach Wonder Woman in the 60s, Batman in the late 80s, and Captain America in the early 2000s, and tackle each moment individually. 60s Wonder Woman is not as stale as comic book enthusiasts suggest, and in fact reveals a progressive view of womanhood that contrasted sharply with the reigning view at the time. 80s Batman revived the comic book industry with its dark new take on the caped crusader, reflecting a growing fear of urban crime which placed a violent Batman as the answer. Finally, post 9/11 Captain America appears in 2002, and while using pro-American rhetoric, also re-defines what it means to be American, centering compassion over following one’s government. Each era I study shows a slow move towards centering the action in the real world, and making explicit, political commentary on the realms of gender, crime and punishment, and race.
2016_HIST_08282139.pdf	2016	In seventeenth and eighteenth century France, the medical world took an increased interest in the functions of pregnancy, labor, and the delivery of infants. Previously a realm dominated by female practitioners, the birthing chamber became the site of a contentious feud. Male practitioners argued that birth was a dangerous, pathological event that should be attended by licensed, medical practitioners, while midwives sought to maintain their longstanding place. Two extraordinary midwives provided writings essential to the analysis of the feud in the medical marketplace of early modern France: Louise Bourgeois (Boursier) in the seventeenth century and Angélique du Coudray in the eighteenth century. Both women were held in high esteem by their colleagues and published multiple volumes detailing their methods and observations. Using their works as a lens into the medical marketplace, the following independent study examines the changing role of the midwife, the male midwife, and the fight over the birthing chamber. Although midwives were never forced out of the French birthing chamber completely, the profession became delegitimized as a result of hostilities in the early modern medical world.
2016_HIST_08297997.pdf	2016	In 1857, Alexina Morrison sued her master James White in the Jefferson Parish courts in Louisiana. She claimed to have been kidnapped from Arkansas and illegally enslaved by James White. Historians have argued that Morrison's case is representative of antebellum racial ideology and argue that it exemplifies the complexities in racial identification of the time. This thesis will acknowledge and build upon these conclusions, and seek to fit the case into the specific historical context of the period. Through an analysis of New Orleans as a city, and through the comparison of Morrison's case to that of Sally Miller and Abby Guy, this work seeks to provide a deeper analysis to the current historiography. The multicultural history of Louisiana provided flexible channels to freedom by slaves, as the structures of race and power were malleable. Examining the specifics of these three freedom suits simultaneously, adds another level of interpretation to the historiography.
2016_HIST_08298699.pdf	2016	John Brown was an abolitionist who was known for his violent actions and his erratic behavior. During his time fighting for the end of slavery, he was known as a madman who used excessive force in order to achieve his goals. However, after his death, John Brown’s story grew immensely. As each new era in history has passed, different ways of interpretation of Brown have been used to attempt to alter the public opinion. While chapter one focuses on the history behind John Brown and his upbringing, chapters two, three, and four emphasize the change in history and how this change has altered the story of John Brown. Chapter two concentrates on the Civil War. During the Civil War, the North and the South had opposing views: the North proclaiming him as a hero, and the South as a villainous madman. Chapter three explains that John Brown, through the 20th century, was depicted in different ways due to the different events such as the Civil Rights Movement and due to the invention of new mediums to embody his character such as a movie and television. Nowadays, as studied in chapter four, the focus of John Brown is on his close representation to the modern-day terrorist. By examining the historical events and changes in America from Brown’s death in 1859, it is obvious that as time passes, the story of John Brown will continue to be transformed to fit with the current time period.
2016_HIST_08298714.pdf	2016	"Race relations in the United States had reached a crossroads during the summer of 1920. Fear from the Red Scare combined with social anxieties from race riots, lynchings, and violence created a need for the next President of the United States to address the issue. These factors set William Estabrook Chancellor, James Weldon Johnson, and Warren G. Harding on a collision course with each other. Each had a different perspective on race relations. Chancellor and Johnson were polar opposites of each other, with Harding being the critical player in managing race relations in the post World War I era from the Executive Office. The purpose of this study is to examine how different events and fears impacted Harding’s decision-making concerning race. This study focuses on a three-year period from 1920 to 1923. Through the use of the Harding Presidential Papers, newspaper articles, books, and interviews, this thesis explains how Harding managed race relations and the impact his polices had on the relationship between blacks and whites in the United States.    "
2016_HIST_08303563.pdf	2016	Harvey Samuel Firestone, the founder of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, developed a unique management style to govern his employee relations and urban investment strategies. This study defines his model and labels it, “industrial collaboration.” The model’s dualistic goal aimed to improve workplace efficiency and maximize employee well-being through a series of benefit programs that addressed the most pressing needs of the community. Harvey formed his model as a reflection of his own values and as a hybrid of previous industrial relations concepts. The company implemented industrial collaboration in its hometown of Akron, Ohio and in Liberia where it operated a series of rubber plantations. A comparison of Firestone’s Akron and Liberian operation reveals several cultural and structural differences between the sites, which altered the appearance of industrial collaboration. Identifying these differences provides an understanding of the impact of Firestone’s operations and highlights the company’s ability to alter the lives of its employees.
2016_HIST_08323310.pdf	2016	The Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962 was one of the most important and highly escalated confrontations of the entire Cold War period. Today, there is more information than ever before about this important event, allowing for a more comprehensive analysis than past studies. In this study I sought to employ a wide array of perspectives and sources from both participants and scholars to examine the overall outcome of the Cuban Missile Crisis, analyzing both strategic and diplomatic impacts of the confrontation. This study was influenced both by primary source material such as meeting transcripts, public statements and individual accounts of the Crisis as well as a great deal of secondary source literature. In conducting my research I placed a great deal of emphasis on incorporating material from different perspectives to allow for a balanced and comprehensive analysis, thus avoiding a conclusion influenced by the bias of any one side. In diversifying the sources examined for this study, I also concentrated on including accounts and studies from not only different national perspectives, but also from different points in time, as the scholarship of the Cuban Missile Crisis has rapidly evolved over time. Through careful examination of these primary and secondary sources, I conclude that the ultimate outcome of the Cuban Missile Crisis was a definitive American victory and a resounding defeat for both the Soviet Union and their Cuban allies in both strategic and diplomatic terms. The diplomatic defeat was particularly devastating for Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev and his government, irreparably damaging the prestige and reputation of both the Soviet state and its leader. The outcome of the Cuban Missile Crisis had profound implications for the involved states and their governments, and marked a major turning point in the Cold War battle for ideological supremacy.
2016_HIST_08337424.pdf	2016	The Mexican Revolution erupted in 1910 after fraudulent presidential elections. Political dissatisfaction with the administration of Porfirio Díaz that developed almost two decades prior escalated into what historians hail as one of the greatest upheavals of the twentieth century. Intellectual precursors of the movement, like Ricardo Flores Magón, encouraged Mexican citizens to arms against the tyrannous Porfirio Díaz and developed the ideological foundation of the Mexican Revolution. Factions emerged with revolutionary leaders like Emiliano Zapata who represented unique political reform. The widespread struggle persisted for the greater part of the decade until the drafting of the Constitución de 1917. While the Constitución de 1917 provided the political reform and structure Mexico desperately needed, President Lázaro Cárdenas enacted the final installment, agrarian reform, in 1936. Reverberations from the Mexican Revolution continued to incite political movements and critique even until this present day. As an influential intellectual precursor, Ricardo Flores Magón’s unique anarcho-communistic ideology circulated widely throughout Mexico. While Flores Magón did not directly participate in the violent upheaval, his ideological contribution provided the struggle with a radical foundation as evidence of the overall revolutionary nature. The political reform and rhetoric intellectual precursors like Ricardo Flores Magón published in the pages of La Regeneración encouraged revolutionaries like Emiliano Zapata to develop similar ideological responses, like the Plan de Ayala. Furthermore, post-war scholars, like Rosario Castellanos, utilized precursory ideology to reflect and critique upon the achievements of the Mexican Revolution and the impact on the citizens of Mexico in literature.
2016_HIST_08353208.pdf	2016	World War II left thousands of Allied POWs in the hands of Japanese and German military officials. POWs were to receive humanitarian treatment that consisted of adequate food, clothing, shelter, and protection from physical brutality. As the Second World War entered 1944-1945 conditions and treatment POWs received in Japanese and German camps began to deteriorate. The deterioration of POW camps across Europe and the Pacific created a sense of helplessness amongst Allied POWs. POWs received inadequate food rations, clothing, shelter, and were beaten daily. The atrocities that were committed at the expense of Allied POWs by German and Japanese military personnel stripped POWs of their humanity. The humanities of POWs were restored when their fellow Allied comrades liberated them in 1945. Following the official surrender of Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan, a series of post-war criminal trials was launched to prosecute German and Japanese officials for the atrocities they committed. The War Crime trials that followed the end of World War II brought justice to those who humiliated, beat, and executed prisoners during World War II. 
2016_HIST_08381552.pdf	2016	The thesis that I have conducted examines the environmental history of the American Civil War through the study of the relationship that existed between the War and the natural environment of Virginia. I chose to narrow my focus to Virginia because the majority of the data I encountered in my preliminary research was in regards to this state. In my thesis, I argue that the relationship that existed between the War and the natural environment was a dynamic one. “Dynamic” meaning that the War impacted the land in both positive and negative ways, and vice versa. My I.S. is composed of two traditional written chapters and a digital map component in the place of a third chapter, which provides my thesis with a unique spatial history component. The first chapter, entitled “When it Rains, it Pours: Virginia’s Natural Landscape and the War,” examines Virginia’s geography, the Shenandoah River Valley, military earthworks and troop movements, and post-war environmentalism to display the dynamic relationship that existed between the natural landscape and the War. Chapter Two, which is entitled “Where the Fever-Demon Strews: Mosquito-Borne Disease in the Swamps of Virginia,” analyzes the diseases of malaria and yellow fever and their impact on the mid-nineteenth century medical community, the American South, African American soldiers, and Union prisoners of war. The digital map component of this I.S. is comprised of five separate maps displaying monthly malarial rates in Virginia and the greater Atlantic Region from the years of 1861 to 1866. The database for this map project was taken from data included in U.S. medical inspector Charles Smart’s 1888 work, The Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion. This map component supports the arguments of my Chapter Two, drawing the conclusion that malarial rates were higher in the summer months and as the War progressed. In order to develop a full understanding of the environmental history of the American Civil War, it is important to keep in mind that the War and the natural environment had a dynamic relationship, which can be clearly seen through the examination of the natural landscape and mosquito-borne disease.
2016_HIST_08382917.pdf	2016	This independent study examines the different American perceptions of Dominican race during three important periods of history for the Dominican Republic, which are as follows: the attempts of American annexation of the Dominican Republic in the early 1870s, the American occupation of the Dominican Republic from 1916-1924, and the Haitian Massacre of 1937. Complete with many nuances and complexities, Dominican racial identity has long been an issue within the country. A racially mixed nation created between Spanish settlers and African slaves, the Dominican Republic has for the last two centuries have attempted to claim itself as a white nation by proudly announcing its Spanish heritage, and diminishing the country’s African roots. However, unlike the United States, race within the Dominican Republic is not either black or white. Instead, Dominican race travels through a racial spectrum creating unique racial complexities. This study utilizes a set of primary sources from American political figures, newspapers, and magazines in efforts to document and analyze the varying perceptions of the Dominican Republic’s racial identity.  
2016_HIST_08383725.pdf	2016	The use of the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki to end World War II was a controversial decision. Ever since, historians have revisited the use of these weapons to try and uncover different motives other than the accepted reason that the atomic bombs spared the lives of millions of U.S. and Japanese lives. My Independent Study aims to rebuff some of these revisionist ideas and to revisit why the atomic bombs were necessary.
2016_HIST_08384158.pdf	2016	This Senior Independent Study focuses on the role of the Army Rangers in World War II both at D-Day and the rescue mission at Cabanatuan. This paper also examines the evolution and legacy of the Army Rangers after their involvement in World War II. This project uses a collaboration of a wide array of sources to determine and discuss the significance of the utilization of a special operations force in during World War II. The first chapter of this Independent Study discusses the resurrection, preparation and role of the Army Rangers at the beginning of the United States involvement in the Western Front by focusing on their efforts in the D-Day operation. The second part of the Independent Study examines the role the Rangers played in the Pacific Theater, and the group’s significance in the rescue mission at Cabanatuan. The third part of the Independent Study focuses on the evolution of the Rangers following World War II and the legacy of those who served.
2016_HIST_08386661.pdf	2016	From 1979 to 1987, over four hundred homicides, suicides, and assault attempts by teenagers and children across America were thought to originate from Dungeons & Dragons. This period, known as the Satanism Scare, was at the apex of radical change in media presence, family life, and social order in the United States of America. Investigating how Dungeons & Dragons was used by anti-occult activists reveals far greater concerns among the American public concerning the survivability of the American family. In Chapter One, we will see adults question the normalcy of individuals associated with Dungeons & Dragons. In Chapter Two, anti-occult activists articulate fear of economic uncertainty through a desire to return to the social roles of the idealized “Nuclear Family”. These activists promulgate Dungeons & Dragons as defying the status quo that brought Americans safety in the post-war era. In Chapter Three, television talk shows sensationalize the threat of Dungeons & Dragons, claiming it promotes nonconformity and violence among youth. This Independent Study demonstrates that the Satanism Scare was a grieving period for the collapse of the post-war American family.
2016_HIST_08386707.pdf	2016	This research essay looks at the role of an intelligence group titled the Special Operations Executive and their role in the Allied victory during the Second World War. Specifically, it examines how SOE through their special operation and resistance groups managed to disrupt German actions and war aims during the Second World War, which aided in the Allied victory in Europe. Through supplying and organizing French resistance groups SOE created an effective resistance movement that was able to provide coordinated and extensive operations against Nazi occupation which aided the Allies during the invasion of Normandy. In addition, SOE’s special operations through the assassination of ranking Nazi generals and destruction of German industrial objectives successfully caused chaos and disruption to Nazi leadership and industry aiding the Allied war effort but often at the cost of reprisals against innocent civilians. Finally, despite effective German counterintelligence and early setbacks SOE was able to operate largely unhindered and extensively in occupied Europe which allowed them to aid Allied objectives in multiple occupied countries. Analysis of their role in the war effort comes from a variety of official histories as well as from official documents from the organization itself which show that SOE had a role in obtaining Allied victory in Europe. This research will show that SOE during the Second World War contributed to Allied war objectives in occupied countries, which caused SOE to contribute to the Allied victory in Europe.
2016_HIST_08386710.pdf	2016	"The aim of my project is to formulate and develop an ethic by which anarchists should act. To do this, I will look at the life and works of Benjamin Tucker and Emma Goldman, two prominent American anarchists active during the final decades of the nineteenth century and the first decades of the twentieth. Through reconstructing and further developing their proposed ethical theories, I can come closer to developing a suitable ethic for anarchists. My conclusion is that Emma Goldman’s personality and emphasis on personal development and empowerment, reflected in her proposed virtue consequentialist approach to acting as an anarchist, is superior to other approaches. In the first chapter, I establish a working philosophical definition of anarchism as the rejection of all claims to the right of authority. Also, I give an overview of the history and historiography of anarchism and how anarchism in the United States arose because of the societal forces shaping the country at the time. In the second and third chapters, I give biographical sketches of both Benjamin Tucker and Emma Goldman, respectively, and show how the differences between the two figures are best reflected in their personalities instead of their philosophies. Those two chapters also contain reconstructions of the two thinkers’ proposed ethical systems. In the fourth and final chapter, I determine that Emma Goldman’s proposed virtue ethic is better than the other proposed ethical systems. Furthermore, I develop this virtue approach by creating a non-exhaustive list of virtues inspired by and complementary to the anarchist movement and run through how an anarchist following the virtue approach would act in a difficult situation."
2016_HIST_08386717.pdf	2016	Sports have been a part of human societies since the time of the ancient Greeks. Historians have studied sport from a variety of angles including how it influences social movements and change. This paper explores the influence that sports have on two social movements, specifically in combating racial segregation and discrimination. Chapter One is an evaluation of sport’s role in the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa, and Chapter Two explores the role that Jackie Robinson and the integration of baseball played in the American struggle for racial equality. In Chapter Three, this paper argues that the unique aspects of sports create the conditions for this progressive change. The in depth evaluation of the role of sports in each movement provides a different and interesting perspective to how sports can be used in a variety of ways to achieve similar goals. Primary newspaper and biographical sources as well as scholarly secondary works tell the narrative of both movements and the influence that sports had on each. In both cases sport played an important role in the eventual success of the movements. Sport is uniquely suited to be a precursor to and potential driver of social change for multiple reasons, including its ability to transcend racial and class boundaries, its creation of leaders, and the variety of flexible ways that it can be used to promote change.
2016_HIST_08386731.pdf	2016	James M. Lawson, Jr. has spent his lifetime refusing to comply with that which is unjust, that which is violent, and that which is immoral. For this, he has garnered little fame but has transformed the lives of countless people suffering from discrimination and oppression in all of their forms. This study examines the life, work, and nonviolent philosophy of James M. Lawson, Jr. and the evolution of his philosophy over time. From his intensive studies of Howard Thurman and Mahatma Gandhi, Lawson became a scholar of nonviolence; for his Workshops on Nonviolence in Nashville, he became a teacher of nonviolence; and for his lifelong devotion to societal reform to alleviate all oppressed persons of their suffering, he has become a nonviolent saint. Since Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination in the spring of 1968 during the Memphis Sanitation Workers Strike, Lawson has spent his last fifty years in a relentless attempt to awaken this nation from its moral stupor so that it may realize the ideals of justice and equality to which it has always claimed to adhere, but has yet to practice.
2016_HIST_08386787.pdf	2016	This thesis investigates the evolution of the charter school concept and the charter school movement from its inception in the 1970s to the present. Using legislative records, newspaper and journal articles, books, and various reports, it reveals the conditions in public education during the late 20th century that contributed to the emergence of charter schools, the ways in which Minnesota shaped and redefined the charter school concept into a model of public schooling that addressed the needs of public education, and the status of charter schools in the present. This thesis argues that the charter school concept was created in response to two important developments within public education: first, the call for school choice and second, growing concerns for the quality of public education in comparison with other global powers. While they were initially created as institutions of choice, charter schools underwent a significant legislative and political journey prior to the first charter school law in Minnesota. This caused them evolve away from this original charter school model. By the time charter schools reached the nation’s largest public schools system in New York City, they had become fundamentally different from their original design.
2016_HIST_08386843.pdf	2016	College football has been an American passion for most of the twentieth century and has sustained its large following throughout the twenty-first century. The game has undergone many changes during its long tenure, some that have transformed the fundamentals of the game throughout every level. One aspect that has remained consistent is the importance of the team’s figure head, the coach. This project examines the evolution of the college football coach from 1945 to present day. Using the prominent coaching careers of Paul “Bear” Bryant (1945-1982), Ara Parseghian (1951-1974), and Steve Spurrier (1987-2015) as case studies, the principles and methods of each coach is investigated in order to show how coaches form their philosophies and adapt them over time under a variety of circumstances. By placing these coaches in comparison with each other, this project uncovers the significant ways in which the position has evolved as a result of changes within the game and larger American society. This project also shows the characteristics that coaches exude regardless of the time period they coach during. Coaches are given the credit when their teams emerge victorious on the gridiron, but also receive the blame when their teams suffer the agony of defeat. Through an understanding of how the position has evolved, current and future coaches can formulate their own time-appropriate philosophies as well as incorporate the themes that successful coaches have highlighted throughout the game’s existence.
2016_HIST_08386937.pdf	2016	"Following World War I, military planners were searching for a doctrine that moved away from trench warfare, which limited army movements and resulted in heavy casualties. During the inter-war period, British commanders J.F.C. Fuller and Sir Basil Liddell Hart, along with France’s Charles de Gaulle, were the first to study armored warfare. German general Heinz Guderian further expanded upon Fuller and Liddell Hart’s ideas and developed an armored doctrine that became the blueprint for Allied commanders. After studying Guderian, Patton formulated an American tank doctrine that maximized German strategy and American resources. Although Fuller, Liddell Hart, de Gaulle, and Patton argued during the inter-war period for implementing an armored doctrine, their leaders opted to maintain the current static strategy, which focused on the infantry. Meanwhile, German commanders undertook the changes necessary to integrate armored doctrine into the armed forces. Germany’s quick success in Poland and France led the Allied nations to adapt their style of warfare to include an armored doctrine. Their adaptation of the German model eventually led the Allies to victory in World War II."
2016_HIST_08386956.pdf	2016	This Independent Study examines the life of Ann Lohman, an English immigrant who offered contraceptive services, including abortion, in nineteenth century New York City. Lohman was often denounced within nineteenth century society based on public values of morality, virtue, vice, and expectations of womanhood. She was attacked by medical professionals and moral reformers who sought to stop her, as well as other practitioners of abortion, from offering contraceptive services. Most historians have only viewed her as her notorious public alias, Madame Restell, which attaches a negative connotation to her career. This study looks at Lohman’s advertisements in newspapers like The Herald and The Sun, court cases against her business, and the overall environment in Victorian society in attempt to reclaim and reposition her as a female health advocate. I argue that Lohman made important contributions to the growing public discussion on female sexuality and reproduction through her defiance of societal standards. Lohman’s work in the nineteenth century, then, likely initiated future endeavors regarding women’s reproductive health rights.
2016_HIST_08387138.pdf	2016	"In this study, I argue that the appearance of anti-miscegenation writings in Ohio spiked during periods that saw massive threats to the notion of white male supremacy, such as the months just prior to the onset of the Civil War, several especially tense points during the Civil War and the Reconstruction period, and the early to middle years of the 1880s. During these times, Ohioans used at least one of three major rhetorical strategies—each of which coincided with a major trend in national events and politics—to justify and explain their anti-miscegenation attitudes. When the Ohio State Legislature first debated the 1861 anti-miscegenation bill, they placed their focus on the issue’s political nature and how passing such a measure would effect Ohio’s appearances in an extremely tense national context. During the Civil War and Reconstruction, white Ohioans called upon scientific notions of race and natural racial states to warn against the degradation that their state’s society would face if blacks were granted political and social equality. Finally, during the 1880s, white male Ohioans publicly castigated white women who engaged in interracial relationships with black men for the purpose of illustrating how their behavior challenged the era’s ideals of white femininity and masculinity."
2016_HIST_08387144.pdf	2016	The United States is a relatively young country. As a result of this basic fact, the United States has been forced to rapidly change and adapt to various aspects of statecraft that it may not have immense experience in. One of these areas is the idea of protecting state secrets. While spying and counter espionage have always been a part of the United States’ history perhaps the most well-known example of US espionage efforts was the almost five decade period of the Cold War. During this period, particularly the early 1950s and late 1940s, the United States entered a period of intense scrutiny of state secrets and the efforts made to protect them. Public events such as the Alger Hiss and Rosenberg Trials, and the CIA’s role within them had a profound impact on US culture. In this thesis I will examine the impact of the CIA’s efforts to prevent state secrets from being stolen by Communist agents in the United States and the profound impact this had on American culture.
2016_HIST_08387365.pdf	2016	In modern day the threats facing the Unites States have changed from nations as a whole to militant insurgencies and terrorist groups. The purpose of this study is to show how does the U.S. military effectively adapt and respond to the ever changing threat of insurgencies. I examine historical examples of U.S. military conflicts from the Gulf War to Special Operations Forces current involvement against insurgencies. In doing so, one can determine what specific factors led the U.S. to switch from deploying conventional forces to Special Operations Forces. U.S. conventional forces were efficient when fighting an identifiable enemy, such as the Iraqi Army. However, once terrorist backed insurgencies infiltrate like they did in Iraq and Afghanistan, U.S. conventional forces became less effective. Through the use of U.S. Government documents, newspaper articles, online articles, hearings and books, this thesis explains how the global insurgency America is fighting today has led the U.S. military to shift from conventional war fighting forces in favor of Special Operations Forces.
2016_HIST_08387659.pdf	2016	England in the nineteenth century was a time full of significant changes. The Industrial Revolution brought an increase in population, migration into cities and new employment opportunities in these urban areas. These changes resulted in great anxieties stemming from a fear of interpersonal violence within new class tensions. Judicial and legislative changes in congruence with societal ideals facilitated a shift in ideas about sexuality and the regulation of men and women’s bodies. The legislative acts implemented during the nineteenth century as a response to this changing and uneasy environment sought to regulate male sexual actions in an attempt to protect society from the dangers of “unnatural” or “undesirable” male lust.
2016_HIST_08390801.pdf	2016	This independent study attempts to examine the motives behind several movements for policy changes in colonial India between the eighteenth and twentieth centuries. Movements for policy changes included a delegation of Indian women advocating for their right to vote, the ban on a ritual known as sati, and the promotion of female education to Indian women. Those who advocated for these changes included Indian reformists, British colonial politicians, and British Christian missionaries. I argue that British politicians were motivated by the desire to maintain colonial rule in India, as well as to enforce Christian values on India’s population. British missionaries were motivated to educate Indian women and convert them to Christianity due to the literature written about Indian Hindu women in Britain during the 1800’s that portrayed Indian Hindu women as violent and uncivilized. Indian reformists were motivated to change policies surrounding Indian women due to their ideal visions of what a women’s place should have been in Indian society. Other possible influences in Indian reformists’ motivations were the societal and political changes that occurred due to the British presence in India, as well as the desire to maintain high societal status under the colonial rule.
2016_HIST_08390918.pdf	2016	During the summer of 1842, Emir Nasrullah of Bukhara, in what is now Uzbekistan, beheaded Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Stoddart and Captain Arthur Conolly, two British officers sent to his kingdom on a diplomatic mission. Reports of the officers’ deaths caused an uproar across Britain, and raised questions about the extent to which Britons abroad were entitled to government protection. Historians have generally examined the officers’ deaths exclusively in the context of the Great Game (the nineteenth century Anglo-Russian rivalry over Central Asia) without addressing the furor the crisis caused in England. By focusing too narrowly on the relevance of this crisis to the Anglo-Russian relations, scholars have overlooked the way Britons of the 1840s interpreted the crisis. This thesis argues that in order to understand the Stoddart and Conolly crisis fully, historians must also consider the British response to it, both in the press and in the form of a popular campaign. Seen in this light, the Stoddart and Conolly crisis is significant not merely as an event in the history of the Great Game, but also as an incident which raised lasting questions about the extent of the government’s responsibility to and for its agents.
2016_HIST_08391043.pdf	2016	This project seeks to make sense of Alaska’s wilderness identity as it is imagined in the lower 48. I discuss the role of naturalists in the production of this identity, describing them as “publicizers” with their own biases and interests at play. I then use Mount McKinley National Park as a lens through which Alaska’s wilderness identity can be better understood. Finally, I engage Alaska’s “last frontier” identity by examining public responses to wolf control in the 1970s.
2016_HIST_08391289.pdf	2016	This project examines four examples of the phenomenon of world’s fairs and expositions as representations of the time periods in which they were created. Its particular focus is the officially constructed vision of each exposition, or expo, studied – Expo 58 in Brussels, Expo 67 in Montreal, Expo 2010 in Shanghai, and Expo 2015 in Milan – and the value placed on the concept of the “nation” within that vision. Toward this aim, this project presents the findings of a qualitative content analysis of the four expo’s official guidebooks and the recontextualization of this analysis’ manifest and latent themes within the histories of the Cold War Europe and Quebec as well as that of recent China. Represented in the four guidebooks is a renegotiation of the value of the “nation” from its dominance in the post-WWII era to an existence challenged by the “city” and non-national global actors in the contemporary day.
2016_HIST_08395188.pdf	2016	In the history of espionage, World War II intelligence contributions typically take a backseat to those of the Cold War despite the fact that the American Office of Strategic Services and British Special Operations Executive provided critical support to the Allied victory. An even less-studied aspect of intelligence history is the involvement of women, particularly during World War II. This project focuses upon the contributions of a singular woman who served in both the Office of Strategic Services and the Special Operations Executive, but has remained largely unrecognized in historiography despite her unmatched achievements. Examining primary source material and authoritative treatments of relevant intelligence history, this study recounts and contextualizes the achievements of Virginia Hall while analyzing bias in the historiography of World War II and mid-twentieth century American intelligence. Virginia Hall was a remarkable intelligence practitioner during and after World War II, despite the obstacles she faced as a disabled woman. Her story deserves to be told.
2016_HIST_08412280.pdf	2016	This Independent Study examines the experiences of Italian and Jewish immigrants in America from 1870-1920. The first chapter specifically focuses on what the actual process of immigration was like before, during, and after arrival to Ellis Island. The second chapter examines American prejudice and praise towards these immigrants, as well as their various levels of assimilation or rejection of such. Lastly, the third chapter investigates living and working conditions in New York, through describing the development of tenements, and Italian women’s concept of “homework.” Overall, this study found the role of gender to play a unique role throughout, and Italian women to be responsible for the subsistence of their family.
2016_HIST_08469375.pdf	2016	This Independent Study examines the experiences of Italian and Jewish immigrants in America from 1870-1920. The first chapter specifically focuses on what the actual process of immigration was like before, during, and after arrival to Ellis Island. The second chapter examines American prejudice and praise towards these immigrants, as well as their various levels of assimilation or rejection of such.  Lastly, the third chapter investigates living and working conditions in New York, through describing the development of tenements, and Italian women’s concept of “homework.” Overall, this study found the role of gender to play a unique role throughout, and Italian women to be responsible for the subsistence of their family.
2016_HIST_08598482.pdf	2016	This study explores the history of “The Anarchy,” a civil war during the middle years of 12th Century England, with the goal of creating an entertaining theatrical piece called Chaos Reigned. Historical and dramaturgical research converges to form a clear strategy for the play's development, focusing on the central figure of Matilda, contender to the English throne. In particular, contemporary chroniclers reveal much about the events of the period, but little about Matilda, apart from an apparent gender bias in their discussions of Matilda. The ultimate goal of the project is a staged reading of a historical play that resonates with modern-day audiences. The final chapter includes reflections on the success of the play, and proposes changes to allow future versions of the script to display Matilda rising above the prominent gender roles of her time. The struggle of Matilda against a male-dominated society is intended to connect her past to the present.
2016_HIST_08811704.pdf	2016	Britain’s Hanoverian Dynasty endured for nearly two hundred years, ruling over the absolute zenith of the British Empire and effectively ending several decades of monarchical instability. King George I introduced the Hanoverian line, in 1714, with his unprecedented accession to the throne. However, both academia and the modern British media disregard George’s pivotal reign. Though magazines portray George I as an ignorant German king who was implicated in the murder of his wife’s lover, the first Hanoverian monarch deserves a much closer look. Apprehensions regarding  his foreignness enabled the growth of parliamentary power and the development of a strong Prime Minister. Through his unique circumstances and political aptitude, George I facilitated the creation of a limited parliamentary monarchy in Britain.
2016_HIST_08836998.pdf	2016	The purpose of this project is to examine the growing popularity within the skateboarding and why the sport has gained such a cult following. The project as well looks into the skate culture of Atlanta through personal interviews and research. The point of this paper is to accurately depict the Atlanta skate scene, but also depicts how the Atlanta skate culture is a product of greater national development of Skateboarding as a whole over time. In the end, the project will represent the growing market of skateboarding within Atlanta, but will explain its formation due to overarching factors that have affected & are still affecting skate culture today.
2017_HIST_09688118.pdf	2017	Elite southern women of the antebellum South had a clearly established role in their patriarchal slave society. Their world was contained in the domestic sphere and although they worked, their lives were defined by their helplessness and dependence on men. The Civil War brought many changes to women’s lives as the necessities of war forced them from their homes. Women worked in their homes and together in public to support their soldiers and to survive the home front war. They struggled to feel like elite domestic women with their ever-increasing public and “masculine” actions. The Civil War altered the ways in which they viewed their own capabilities and how they saw themselves as women.            When the war was over this group had to find ways of reshaping their own identities and those of their men. They were able to develop a new role for themselves in southern society through their wage work and ladies’ associations. Women of the former elite antebellum society used the skills and comfort in the public setting that they learned during the war to re-establish and redefine themselves. The characteristics of the new elite southern woman was based on their antebellum definition, yet it also incorporated a new level of public independence that they learned from their war experiences. "
2017_HIST_09801308.pdf	2017	Women are often overlooked as political operatives throughout the twentieth century, however a closer analysis of Prohibition, Women’s Suffrage and African Civil Rights proves their effective involvement. Despite evangelical Christian based obstacles, women successful created grass roots campaigns that moved Southern society towards adopting Prohibition. Using organizing and political skills developed during the Prohibition era, women led the charge to the adoption of the nineteenth amendment (Women’s Suffrage) with Tennessee as the deciding vote. With the skills necessary to run a successful movement and pulling on the organizing support of community churches, the African American Civil Right’s Movement combined aspects of Prohibition and Women’s Suffrage to achieve political success. Because these movements are often understood as three distinct political shifts, scholarship focuses on specific aspects of the greater argument that women were instrumental in these movement’s successes despite evangelical involvement. Establishing women and evangelicalism as consequential actors in these movements ties parts of previous scholarship into one central argument. The murder of Edward Carmack in Tennessee provides a catalyst point of where women and evangelicalism collided together in the political sphere. These three great movements of the twentieth century were interconnected in how they achieved success and the participants who made them successful.
2017_HIST_09808794.pdf	2017	My project uses a digital approach to demonstrate that northern European immigrants migrated due to economic push factors, and settled in the United States for economic opportunities. Despite the vast research on American immigration, few historians use a transnational approach to understand common immigrant motivations for migrating, and the development of lives in the United States. Current historiography tends to focus on a singular sending or receiving nation which provides a narrow understanding of typical American immigrant experiences because it does not connect multiple immigrant experiences across space and time. I use case studies from multiple countries to better understand typical nineteenth and early twentieth century northern European immigrant experiences in the United States. I use my family as case studies, and use a digital genealogy timeline to provide an interactive public history approach that incorporates government records, and family photos. The timeline allows viewers to track a family unit through space and time, revealing generational settlement and employment trends. My analysis of specific nineteenth and early twentieth century northern European case studies highlight the main push factor that sparked northern European migration: the lack of economic opportunities within a home country as the result of agricultural failures, political conflicts and industrialization. This study provides examples of the creation and development of immigrant lives in America through settlement location, employment history, and generational upward mobility. Immigrants preferred communities with similar cultural backgrounds, and areas with ample employment opportunities. This study’s transnational case study approach to northern European transatlantic migration through a public history lens provides better insight into the average nineteenth and twentieth century American immigrant experience.
2017_HIST_09831200.pdf	2017	Bermuda played an important role in the changing relationship between America and England. Bermuda’s role in this extremely turbulent relationship is often overlooked as, while important, the island played a behind the scenes role. This paper explores the impact of Bermuda on relationship between England and America, from the very beginning of America’s history through the Revolutionary war, the War of 1812 and ends with where they stand in relation to Bermuda today. The primary sources that I gathered were firsthand accounts of two of the sailors who wrecked on Bermuda’s reefs, hand-written letters from George Washington to the government of Bermuda during the Revolutionary War, and a journal written by Lieutenant-Colonel Ferdinand Whittingham looking at the use of a convict labor force in Bermuda developing the Royal Naval Dockyard. This project is significant because Bermuda’s effect on the relationship between England and America is an often-overlooked subject. Despite only being an English colony, Bermuda had a huge impact on the birth of the United states as well as having a hand in many of the nineteenth century interactions between the two world powers.
2017_HIST_09842100.pdf	2017	In a country known for its abundance, Americans today hardly think about the quantity of their food choices and the quality of their meals. However, this has not always been the mentality throughout the United States. During World War II, the government required Americans to ration and limit their consumption of crucial wartime goods. Although difficult, the choices Americans were obligated to make directly influenced the war effort as claimed by the national government. The national government and advertising businesses collaborated to promote rationing measures and adherence to the governmental guidelines that limited purchasing of certain materials and foods. These advertisements and propaganda campaigns were heavily gendered towards the typical 1940s American homemaker, encouraging them to see their domestic duties as patriotic service. This study explores promotion of women’s patriotic domesticity in relation to food in three forms: first through the promotion of victory gardens and canning; second through magazine advertisements that showed the housewife’s key contributions to the domestic war effort; third through First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt’s public role in which she modeled a modern approach to food and meal preparation as a form of civic duty. Women were vital to the United States’ efforts on the home front during World War II, and this study considers the government’s promotion of women’s wartime duties and its desire to keep women within preconceived gender roles.
2017_HIST_09859803.pdf	2017	In 1957, the Cleveland Municipal School District’s (CMSD) Board of Education implemented a relay program to address issues of overcrowding in Cleveland public schools. Solely affecting schools that served a predominately black student body on Cleveland’s rigidly segregated East Side, this program split the school day into two three-and-a-half hour sessions to accommodate increasing student body sizes, shortening the school day for African American pupils by an hour-and-a-half compared to the five hours in the classroom given to white peers. As mothers of children on the relay program realized that this was the Board of Education’s permanent solution to overcrowding, they mobilized to protest the racial discrimination pervasive in the Board’s policies. Their picketing and sit-in demonstrations fueled by emotions such as anger and frustration laid the foundation for the larger school desegregation movement that occurred in Cleveland, Ohio from 1957 to 1976. The purpose of this independent study is to examine African American women as the driving force behind Cleveland’s school desegregation movement. Through their personal connection to their children, mothers sustained the movement’s momentum as it faced resistance from the Board of Education and whites, using emotion as a political tool to garner further support. By analyzing mothers’ activism in Cleveland’s desegregation movement, this study also seeks to show the significance of Cleveland in terms of the national civil rights movement and shed light on the imperative contributions of women often overshadowed in the popular civil rights narrative by male historical subjects.
2017_HIST_09875284.pdf	2017	Along with service in the Continental Army and Navy and the various state militias, American patriots during the Revolutionary War had the option of sailing aboard privateers, private ships authorized to attack British commerce during the war. Where studies analyzing other military forces during the Revolution have been more nuanced, scholars that have looked at privateering have either focused on its strategic effectiveness during the conflict or merely written it off as a profit-driven phenomenon of maritime plunder. Privateering played a role in the course of the Revolution to a degree, but more importantly the practice was influenced by the ideological considerations that framed the Revolution itself—considerations that are ignored when privateering is seen through the eyes of the profit-narrative. While in part motivated by profit, privateering during the American War for Independence can only be fully understood when placed in the context of contemporary debates over liberty, republicanism, and identity. These debates stretched across the range of actors involved in privateering, from the sailors crewing privateer vessels to the merchants investing in privateer expeditions. This thesis will draw upon existing literature on privateering, Revolutionary ideology, and original analysis of primary source information including correspondence, government documents, and individual narratives to place privateering within the broader framework of the Revolutionary period. In doing so, it will add a more complex and multilayered approach to privateering to place that scholarship alongside other studies of military phenomena during the American Revolution.
2017_HIST_09879034.pdf	2017	The national press descended on Dayton, Tennessee in the summer of 1925 to watch the prosecution of John Scopes for teaching the theory of evolution to students in the local public school, violating the Butler Act. The trial became a major flashpoint in a national debate over science and religion that is still going on nearly 100 years later. The national press reporting on the Scopes Trial raises many questions. How did the press report? Did it provide one view or many? What kind of public spheres (that is, a space of rational-critical debate) did they provide? This I.S. answers these questions through a close reading of a dozen newspapers from across the country. Altogether, this research shows the array of responses to the events at Dayton, I show that different newspapers reported similar but also distinct views. Newspapers from different corners of the United States, I argue, created multiple public spheres in which the issues of the trial were presented and debated. In chapter one of my I.S. I examine several examples of the national urban press and show the variety of coverage that newspapers reported. In my second chapter, I look at several representatives of the African-American press and their views on the trial and different perspectives they had regarding race, class, the South, and science and religion. In the third chapter, I investigate three regional newspapers from Ohio and the differences in coverage of the trial. 
2017_HIST_09917025.pdf	2017	Research in mathematics impacted the undergraduate mathematics curriculum between 1930 and 1950. Though the scholarship on American higher educational history is vast, mathematics as a subject has largely been ignored by historians. Furthermore, those works that discuss changes in mathematics curricula do not engage research happening in high-level mathematics. A study of mathematics curricula reveals that higher educational institutions shifted their approach to undergraduate mathematics due to developments in research, major pedagogical movements, and external historical events. This IS draws on archives of course catalogues from two higher education institutions as well as articles written by mathematicians and mathematics educators in the early twentieth century. This project strives to bring studies of mathematical research closer to related studies in mathematics curriculum by considering the historical impact of such research on the undergraduate mathematics experience. 
2017_HIST_09917458.pdf	2017	In March of 1968, East Los Angeles witnessed thousands of Mexican American students walk out of Belmont, Garfield, Lincoln, Roosevelt, and Wilson High Schools. In what became known as the East Los Angeles Blowouts, the protests sparked a series of walkouts from high schoolers nationwide. The students protested what I call “educational racism.” This term refers to different ways the education system in East Los Angeles discriminated against Mexican Americans students on the basis of their race. This Independent Study analyzes how the students in East Los Angeles embraced their identity as both students and Mexican Americans to protest against the educational racism in their schools. By placing the students’ actions into a theoretical framework known as the “Movement Culture,” and using the concept of a “free space,” this study shows how the Mexican American students’ organizing, heightened political consciousness, execution of a massive protest, and the aftermath of the walkout led to a new specific student movement within the Chicano Movement as a whole.
2017_HIST_09918427.pdf	2017	This Independent Study Project focuses upon the causes of the 1967 Detroit uprising. More specifically, it examines the relationship between the subjects of black housing and police brutality as causes of the major unrest. This paper studies these topics through the analysis of primary sources from the 1940s, the 1950s, and the 1960s.Most of the primary sources can be found at The Walter P. Reuther Library in Detroit, and the Bentley Historical Library in Ann Arbor. This paper also references arguments from historians who have studied similar topics. Through the analysis of primary and secondary sources, this Independent Study provides a chronological examination of black housing and police discrimination in Detroit. More specifically, from the 1940s to 1967. In doing so, this paper not only shows how these topics increased anger in the black community, but also how this anger evolved throughout the decade.
2017_HIST_09923849.pdf	2017	The purpose of this project is to explain what historical forces led to the construction of Greenhills, Ohio. The goal is to show that Greenhills is one example in a very long line of planned residential communities in American history which have been designed in order to solve contemporary societal issues. This has been done by examining how Americans have constructed space in preceding planned communities. Upon examining these examples, it is clear that Greenhills is very much part of what I identify as an American spatial tradition, a community which especially borrows from the utopian and progressive elements of this tradition. Through a spatial analysis of Greenhills, this research highlights how New Deal reformers sought to implement their vision for a collective and cooperative society through their spatial construction of this suburban community.
2017_HIST_09925073.pdf	2017	This paper examines how the training of women in the United States Marine Corps has changed from World War I to the Vietnam War. The goal of this paper is to show the connection between women’s training and their increased role in the military. The paper utilizes government documents, interviews with veterans, and existing research on the history of women in service. As women gained more rights in the armed forces, the military had to adjust women’s roles to match the wants of society. Society placed women into ridged gender roles and was reluctant to have women stray from their assigned responsibilities. As women’s roles in the military expanded and many desired a life other than to be a housewife, women would receive more training. The additional training allowed women to gain the skills necessary to have a successful career in the Marines, but also the ability to specialize in a field. The advances to women’s training allowed the Marine Corps to continue to have the most elite service women in the nation.
2017_HIST_09925231.pdf	2017	This paper will look at the Venetian Republic and the Florentine Republic were two of the most influential and powerful city-states on the Italian peninsula from 1300 A.D to 1600 A.D. At this point in time, Florence and Venice had established powerful and influential economic networks that reached beyond the Italian peninsula. Venice and Florence had diversified and fortified their business endeavors to take advantage of new opportunities throughout much of Europe. Venice special- ized in maritime technology and production, which they used to dominate trade throughout the Mediterranean. The importance of Venetian maritime trade is shown in The Lion of St. Mark, (1516), by Vittore Carpaccio (see fig. 1), which includes detailed depictions of merchant vessels. Meanwhile Florence mastered international banking and industrial pursuits such as textile pro- duction. Florentine bankers were found throughout Europe, and this is also documented in art. One notable example is the Portinari Altarpiece (see fig. 2), a painting by Flemish master Hugo van der Goes. The altarpiece was commissioned in Flanders by Tommaso Portinari, the manager of the Medici bank in the city of Bruges. The work was then shipped back to Florence and placed in the hospital of Santa Maria Nuova.
2017_HIST_09925938.pdf	2017	"Over the nearly seven hundred years since Catherine Benincasa’s death there has been a flow of almost continuous scholarly and spiritual work that has been written about her. Catherine is one of the few well documented women, of her historical period, in history. However, there is a large gap in the historiography of Catherine, and that is looking at the effect of her letters on her audience and possible implications of her letters on the political and spiritual landscape of her time and beyond. An important piece of looking at Catherine’s spiritual and political career is using a feminist or subaltern methodology to understand how Catherine’s gender influenced the outcome of her career. This thesis approaches the political and spiritual career of Catherine Benincasa through her many letters. In particular, this thesis will trace how she uses two particular rhetorical devises to call her audience to action. Further this thesis will examine how her audiences’ gender impacted the meaning of the rhetorical devises she used.  
2017_HIST_09926292.pdf	2017	The Frontier Thesis established by Fredric Jackson Turned in 1893 was poised to explain American development through the acquisition of virgin land. The land he described was not virgin, but in fact occupied by Native Americans. This essay looks at these Native Americans with the Frontier Thesis as a backdrop. This thesis examines how factors of the frontier altered Plains Indian society so that it became more skilled at war but lacked sustainability. It does this by outlining the historiography of the frontier in Western history, investigating the Great Plains environment and early history, and examining three causal factors towards Plains Indian society. The three factors examined are horses, guns, and disease, respectively. The conclusion drawn from this essay is that Plains Indian growth was severely limited by its dependency on the environment and European trade. The Great Plains region today still struggles with the economic demands of the environment. It is an issue that has yet to end for Americans or Native Americans.
2017_HIST_09927491.pdf	2017	The purpose of this essay is to explore and bring a greater understanding of the events surrounding and connected to the Nazi book burnings of May 10th, 1933. Throughout this essay, I will explore several key events that are related to the aforementioned book burnings, such as the Great Depression, the Reichstag Fire and the evolution of the newspaper industry in the 19th and 20th centuries. I will also analyze the responses and impact that the book burnings had in several different countries, such as the United States, Great Britain and Australia. The purpose of doing so is to understand the complex and underlying factors that led to the book burnings, as well as how the responses to that event are critical to the evolution of the 1930s and the development of World War II. Overall, The Nazi book burnings as well as the underlying events and the responses thereof, are the primary topics that will be explored in this Independent Study.
2017_HIST_09927959.pdf	2017	"This study discusses one particular, significant, historical moment, the Wisconsin Democratic Presidential Primary of 1964. The purpose of this analysis is to interpret the campaign of Alabama Governor, George C. Wallace in its proper historical context. He performed well, better than expected, anyway, due to support from a broad political coalition that had never been seen before to such an extent. Wallace made effective appeals to both traditional conservatives as well as to urban white ethnics. I argue that Wallace’s success in bringing together disparate elements of a previously non-existent political coalition set a model for future conservative politicians to follow. Wallace, I contend, should, therefore, be regarded as a major contributor to the development of the modern American right. "
2017_HIST_09929631.pdf	2017	This thesis explores how, during a singular period in America between 1850 and 1900, femininity as a social construct played a role in crafting the ideal Victorian women. Furthermore, it examines how alternative fashions invented by dress reformers associated with the Bloomer and Aesthetic movement reinforced or deconstructed the ideal Victorian woman, thus, redefining the social construct of femininity. Dress reform emerged as an approach to a healthier lifestyle for women before acquiring political significance. In general, the primary goal of dress reform was to introduce comfortable, healthy, functional, feminine, and aesthetically appealing substitutes to mainstream fashion styles of the time. These modified fashions accommodated the emerging healthy, practical, active, and independent non-stereotypical Victorian woman promoted by reformers. Unpredictably, the progressive ideas and actions behind dress reform would have a lasting impact on American society. The predominate support and backbone of my paper comes from newspapers, women’s magazines, images, and books that allowed me to glimpse into Victorian American society. From reformer testimonies and oppositional objections, I was able to to construct and interpret the rhetorical arc of the Bloomer and Aesthetic movement.
2017_HIST_09930565.pdf	2017	This study examines four major American cookbooks – Fannie Farmer’s Cookbook, The Joy of Cooking, Betty Crocker’s Picture Cookbook, and Mastering the Art of French Cooking. I examine these works as primary sources for food history and for the social history of the period they were popularized. Through this examination, the argument is made for how cookbooks can be an important historical source as they are a window to the social history of when they were produced. Cookbooks can provide information about societal changes, technological advances, changing gender roles, global relations, and historical events. For each of these cookbooks I put them into context using both social and food history. Next, I describe the basic history of the author that leads them to writing the cookbook. Then I present the history of how the cookbook was published. An examination of multiple editions of each cookbook, such as the layout of the cookbook and a summary of its contents, along with a summary of these changes is offered as a picture of how the cookbook continues to change with the times. Finally, certain aspects of the cookbooks are provided as a reflection of the social history of their time.
2017_HIST_09999744.pdf	2017	In an ever-modernizing public school system, many subjects seen as outdated or unnecessary are losing support in favor of subjects that appear on state tests and other assessments. To contribute to the pool of resources for Latin and Ancient History courses in high school and to demonstrate the usefulness of a Classics education, this project focused on creating ninth grade Latin language materials for a unit on Roman slavery that combines Latin language learning with Social Studies curricula. Social Studies instructional methods, including interdisciplinary teaching, thematic units, and inclusivity framed the entire unit. Additionally, the creation of individual materials incorporated aspects of specific Latin language learning methods, such as the Reading Method and the Modern Language Model as well as accounted for broader debates, such as the whether high school Latin courses should emphasize translation or textual analysis. Finally, to aid organization and accessibility, and to foster the democratization of knowledge, all materials are hosted on a website, which is structured as a classroom.
2009_SOAN_04678303.pdf	2009	This thesis explores the differences in effectiveness of secular and faith-based post-release reentry programs by answering three questions: how these are programs different from one another, why these programs are different, and if the outcome of the individual is affected by these differences. Nine in-depth interviews were obtained from seven different reentry programs. Three of the programs were faith-based and four of the programs were secular. This study focuses on the missions of the organizations, resources and services offered, and how each type of program approaches their clients with respect to their stigma and label. Rational choice, biosocial, social structure, and social process theories, as well as social and cultural capital theory, and labeling and stigma theories are applied to the data collected in this study. It was found that neither secular nor faith-based reentry programs are better than the other because they both contain positive aspects that are beneficial to a successful reintegration. This study suggests that a reentry program should be created that encompasses positive features of both types of programs. Future studies are suggested to conduct more interviews from each program, along with more programs and to include more participants as well as staff.
2009_SOAN_04678304.pdf	2009	This thesis explores the meaning of the family meal to ten families in the Dallas, Texas area. The motivation was to discover what the function of the family meal served to their lives both as individuals and as a family unit in context of relationships between family members. Also, in order to gain a fuller understanding of the importance of the family meal, a historical comparison was made between the meal practices of the parents of the family and those their children have grown accustomed to. These questions were answered through in-depth interviews conducted with each family, including questions on schedules, family dynamics, and family memories. Results show that despite a general opinion of individuals choosing their own schedules or motives over a family meal, the opposite seems to be far truer. The families interviewed use dinner as an escape from their otherwise hectic lives and cherish the time they have together over a meal.
2009_SOAN_04678305.pdf	2009	"The purpose of this project is to attempt to understand how stories of alien contact shape the social and cultural reality of the alien witness. The narratives of fifteen alien ""experiencers"" have been collected to illustrate the religious, symbolic, mythic, and ritual dimensions of alien contact. While the many dimensions of the experience offer an important commentary concerning American government, politics, economics, and technology, alien contact arguably fulfills a need for religious transcendence within a society rooted in rational and secular experience. In viewing the narratives as religious, the alien experiencer becomes a sort of religious specialist, or shaman, but within a modern cultural context that seemingly dismisses the value of such experiences. In understanding the alien contact narrative as a sacred myth, humans are given an ultimate origin, purpose, and direction. This mythic narrative seems to describe technology as both beneficial and detrimental, reflecting a newly globalized and highly technological human milieu. The alien contact myth offers a resolution to the technology conflict, suggesting a combination of emotions and intelligence to create a human race better adapted for survival and expansion in the cosmos as both spiritual and technological beings."
2009_SOAN_04678306.pdf	2009	This thesis explores The College of Wooster's students' understanding of organ donation and how this relates to how they view the world. To research this topic, two surveys were distributed that asked general demographic questions as well as open-ended questions concerning the respondent's beliefs about organ donation and the organ allocation system. The first was distributed to 100 random campus campus mailboxes, and to a convenience sampling of Dr. Frese's Introduction to Anthropology class for a total of 55 respondents. The second survey was distributed to the same class of which 40 surveys were returned. Results showed that race, ethnicity, gender, and culture affected the students' beliefs about organ donation, the organ allocation system, and whether or not they communicated their wishes for organ donation. Future research is suggested, focusing on how class affects students' views on organ donation within an ethnic group, different opinions on what a religion says about organ donation, and beliefs about a spiritual connection between a donor and recipient. A good way to ensure more accurate results would be to have a larger population of ethnic minorities.
2009_SOAN_04678308.pdf	2009	Umkweta is a circumcision ritual for amaXhosa males in South Africa aged 15 to 25 that has been practiced for centuries. But indigenous traditions like umkweta have undergone many changes due to globalization. While originally designed to prepare Xhosa boys for adulthood as well as unify and strengthen Xhosa identity, umkweta in its modern practice is plagued by inflated costs and severe health concerns. By interviewing men who have undergone umkweta, and incorporating theories of world-systems and negotiation, I analyze the effects of globalization on Xhosa ritual circumcision, paying close attention to power, capitalism, and identity.
2009_SOAN_04678309.pdf	2009	"Women's emergence in extreme sports has become increasingly common over the past few years. This thesis examines the cultural meanings and representation of women through the lens of snowboarding. It also focuses on styles of dress, the ""snowboarder image,"" and other markers of identity among participants. This thesis begins with an overview of the previous studies that have covered topics of women in extreme sports, the appeal of snowboarding, and snowboarder style. The snowboarding culture is investigated further using Pierre Bourdieu's theory of capital and Michael Messner's theory on gender in sports. Data collection was conducted using three methods: content analysis of snowboard magazines, participant observation at ski resorts, and twelve interviews with male and female snowboarders. Male snowboarders considered the sport to be equal for both genders, but females felt snowboarding's male-dominance. This resulted in a male privilege that male snowboarders did not realize exists. Snowboarder appearance is changing from dark, grunge styles to bright, flashy styles, hinting at a feminine influence. This thesis explores the morphing of the female snowboarder identity through a masculine gaze."
2010_SOAN_04678313.pdf	2010	"This is an ethnographic study of aging women in the Red Hat Society. My study looks at the social networks and behaviors of these women through a series of interviews with eight women from two different Red Hat Society groups. The participants are primarily white, working to middle-class, rural, Ohio women between the ages of 50-65 years. I use literature from Valerie Fennell's (1981) study of older women's social organizations in a southern United States town to support my study, as well as previous studies on the Red Hat Society such as Marybeth Stalp's (2009) ""Conspicuously Consuming: The Red Hat Society and Midlife Women's Identity"" and Susan L. Hutchinson's (2008) ""Beyond Fun and Friendship: The Red Hat Society as a Coping Resource for Older Women."" I also give an overview on the study of gerontology in order to understand the study of aging individuals. I employ a Durkheimian theoretical approach to my study to better understand how the individual behaves within their Red Hat Society group. I also use Marcuse's theory of aesthetics and play to explain dress in the Red Hat Society. I discuss three recurring themes within my interviews: the importance of fictive kin, how a group mentality affects the individual within a group, and how the practice of age-grading socially segregates RHS members from friends outside of RHS. In my final chapter, I explain the importance of ethnographic studies with aging populations within the discipline of anthropology and explore how the hypotheses that I made throughout my literature review and theory chapter compare with the data I collected. I also explore the importance of my study of RHS as it relates to the discipline of anthropology; for example, the importance of studying how RHS members influence modern society's beliefs about aging individuals."
2010_SOAN_04678314.pdf	2010	"The following paper explores the meanings behind turning ""bad hair"" into ""good hair"", the role of the beauty salon in Santiago, Dominican Republic, and the implications this has on Dominican women's ideas of beauty. The data collected through participant observation and interviews revealed three themes: how Dominican women define ""good hair"" and ""bad hair"" and the different hairstyles worn in formal and informal settings; conversations within the salon environment between women and how topics change when a male is present; and finally, how the images displayed in the salon communicate a white beauty ideal and the reactions of the women to these images. An unexpected finding that emerged revealed signs of resistance against the white beauty ideal."
2010_SOAN_04678315.pdf	2010	The purpose of my Independent Study is to explore the fashion advertising world. I reviewed literature by social scientists and theorists in order to frame the analysis of my data. I conducted a content analysis of six separate magazines to see how fashion advertising markets gender. Although there has been prior research conducted on magazine advertisements and fashion, none have specifically focused on the role of the hegemonic, Western society. If I were to further my research, I would expand my sources in order to obtain a more in-depth view of the fashion advertising world.
2011_SOAN_04678316.pdf	2011	This thesis is designed to look at deviant behavior among college students and high school students and to determine whether or not there is a difference between the frequency in which college and high school students engage in deviant behavior. In order to investigate my research question I surveyed 175 College of Wooster students about their criminal behavior in college and in high school. Based on key criminological theories looked at in this thesis (theory of neutralization, theory of differential association, social bond theory, and rational choice theory) I hypothesized that: college students are more likely to commit crime than high school students, college students commit crime more frequently than high school students, and college students are more prone to commit more serious types of crime. My results showed statistically significant support for these hypotheses. Although tests for these specific causal factors of this relationship were inconclusive I strongly encourage more research to be done in order better understand what may cause this relationship.
2011_SOAN_04678317.pdf	2011	The prevailing portrayals of 'Gypsies' in popular media are not representative of the real Roma ethnicity. In my research I ask the questions: What are common portrayals of 'Gypsies' seen in Western media? How do these differ from the actual Romani population? What are the consequences of these misconceptions? Through the use of surveys, I obtained data that revealed perceptions of 'Gypsies.' I examined these surveys and the popular culture references they indicated to get a better idea about the influence of media on people's notions of 'Gypsies.' The misrepresentation of 'Gypsies' is a problem because media affect public perceptions and thus affects public policy. The consequences of negative stereotypes have been seen in many instances, such as discriminatory laws that are extremely harmful to the Roma population. Furthermore, the misrepresentation and/or essentialization of a culture is detrimental to the goals and values of anthropology. Anthropologists should strive to accurately and respectfully portray cultures. Though anthropologists in most cases do not directly produce media that stereotypes cultures, the negative effects should concern anthropologists. Media producers should consult anthropologists before portraying a culture and anthropologists should support efforts by media producers to be culturally accurate. My project aims to deconstruct 'Gypsy' myths and present accurate information on the Roma, as well as discuss how media affects this specific ethnic group.
2011_SOAN_04678318.pdf	2011	This study is a Foucauldian exploration of 'Living Well,' an alternative discourse of climate change inspired by indigenous Andean worldviews and championed by the Bolivian MAS government. As climate change accelerates, the world looks for solutions to the impending climate crises. 'Living Well' proposes that the climate crisis has resulted from the global hegemony of neoliberalism and in response, it proposes a vision of life based on communal values, dialogue, popular participation, and simplistic living. To explore this resistance movement, I conducted nine in-depth interviews with environmentally engaged citizens of Cochabamba, Bolivia. I suggest that 'Living Well' is not singular. In contrast, there are two main distinct interpretations resulting from the diametrically opposing Andean worldview (cosmovision) and Occidental worldview. I argue that its practice will be realized through the culmination of grassroots environmental action, directly connected to emerging citizenship regimes based on popular sovereignty, and struggles for inter-cultural dialogue.
2011_SOAN_04678319.pdf	2011	The purpose of this project is to understand the complexity of ethnic and racial identity among domestic students of color at the College of Wooster.  Through the use of a nineteen-question qualitative survey questionnaire, I intend to answer the following questions:  1) how do domestic students of color identify ethnically and racially, 2) how does the College of Wooster identify domestic students of color, 3) how do students of color negotiate their ethnic and racial identities with how the College identifies them, and 4) how do students of color evaluate the services and programs offered to them, based on their ethnic and racial identities, by the College. This project is intended to be an introductory step for further research on ethnic identity and students of color at higher education institutions.
2011_SOAN_04678321.pdf	2011	The General Equivalency Diploma offers someone a second chance to earn their high school diploma.  While millions have taken the exam to earn a GED, this still remains an underrepresented group in research, especially in rural areas.  This thesis focuses on how the circumstances related to living in a rural area affect the educational attainment of rural GED students.  The paper begins by examining other research to give background information on five key areas: rural economy, rural culture, rural education, reasons for leaving school, and the financial impact of a GED.  It then moves into the theoretical frameworks of Paul Willis (Social Reproduction Theory), Pierre Bourdieu (Cultural Reproduction Theory, capital, habitus, and structure), and Samuel Bowles and Herbert Gintis (Correspondence Theory).  These examine the structural barriers that are often present in the educational system, which prevent low-income from high-paying employment and opportunities.  Other concepts used include Philippe Bourgois' use of oppositional identity, agency (from Pierre Bourdieu's perspective), and human capital theory to demonstrate how those barriers can be overcome.  Research was then conducted for this project was conducted using participant observation in a GED classroom and interviews with students, a tutor, and staff members.  The data collection revealed that reasons for leaving school are peer related, school related, and family related.  Another finding focuses on reasons for re-attending classes to earn a GED.  This revealed that people work towards a GED because of receiving support from friends, family, and community, as well as wanting more education, employment, and to improve their lives.  Experiences within the GED program show how these students create a sense of community in the classroom with the teachers and tutors to make a more positive learning environment.  They also have a support and motivation system in the program.  Each student guides themselves and others through the process, with the help of the teachers, tutors, and the coordinator.  The pedagogical strategies used in the classroom allows for more individualized learning by using many different teaching techniques.  The last finding examines the perspectives of two teachers and the coordinator of the adult education program to show their views related to why students leave school, why they come back, and experiences they have seen students have within the GED program.
2011_SOAN_04678322.pdf	2011	This thesis explores the medical culture of the Amish in relation to two predominant medical systems: allopathic and alternative medicine. The primary research question focuses on how the Amish negotiate the tension between allopathic and alternative medicine as examined through the lens of the practitioners who serve the Amish. This goal of a 'middle ground' approach to medicine is assessed through the lens of authoritative knowledge, efficacy, and culture-specific interpretations of mind-body dualism theories. These theories were supported by two data collection methods: 1) thirteen in-depth qualitative interviews were conducted with alternative and biomedical practitioners currently residing in Northeast Ohio. 2) Extensive content analysis of seven issues of the weekly Amish newspaper, The Budget, from 1950-2010. From these methodologies, the desire to find a middle ground source of medical care emerged as the overarching theme, influenced by personally and culturally designated medical authorities and efficacy qualifications. The unique nature of Amish culture revealed that chiropractors are capable of addressing medical concerns with allopathic or alternative treatments and all the other needs of the Amish patients. These practitioners efficaciously serve as the medical authority for both medical systems, as is supported by the results. Suggestions for future research are included, as well as in-depth records of the data collected from The Budget (see Appendix A).
2011_SOAN_04678323.pdf	2011	This thesis is an exploration of the tattoo subculture in America. The research focuses in on several interests: the reasons people choose to get tattoos and the meaning behind them, the sense of community felt my members of the tattoo culture, the location of tattoo culture between mainstream and deviant culture, and the differences between American tattoo culture in a rural vs. urban setting. The exploration of these research interests was done through two methods of data collection: open-ended surveying of 27 people with tattoos and interviewing with two tattoo artists. Drawing upon three different theoretical frameworks I provide an in-depth discussion my findings. The results showed that people get tattoos for many reasons, but a common theme is that tattooing is a form of self-expression and it is this view that is part of the reason the association of tattooing with deviance has decreased. I found that the meaning behind tattoos tends to reflect cultural values. The significant differences found in a rural vs. urban setting of American tattoo culture deal with how tattoo artists view themselves and how setting can limit the type of work they do. Future research is suggested, as this subculture is continually changing.
2011_SOAN_04678324.pdf	2011	Despite the vast amount of research presented across disciplines on Japanese popular culture, there remains a large gap of knowledge in how fans are consuming Japanese popular culture and their motivations behind this consumption. This study aims to fill in this gap through a thorough analysis of surveys focusing on general consumption, interviews looking into specific appeal and behavior, and participant observations exploring Japanese popular culture conventions. While there are numerous findings and conclusions within this paper, the most holistic conclusion is that the appeal of Japanese popular culture lies in the creativity it displays in anime and manga, as well as the creativity it allows in the localized fan culture. This study is only a minor work in a growing body of research on such a topical phenomenon, but despite its size it presents through its data numerous implications that may contribute to further research on Japanese popular culture in America.
2011_SOAN_04678325.pdf	2011	The topic of this research project is the symbolism of horses in Amish culture. My study poses the questions of how the horse both unifies and divides the Amish, and how the role of horses has changed within an economic context. The literature reviewed in this study takes a deeper look into Amish culture, and examines key animals in other cultures. To interpret my data I looked at the theoretical models of both Clifford Geertz and Victor Turner, within the field of symbolic anthropology. The methods I used to conduct this study were in-depth interviewing and participant observation. To obtain my data I interviewed eight Amish individuals. In my findings I discuss how the horse unifies the Amish through their transportation to church, slow pace of life, agrarian tradition, socialization of children, rites of passage, language, and horse auctions. I then illustrate the social and cultural distinctions reflected in horses through gender, age, affiliation, and 'horsey-ness'. Finally, I discuss the horse in a changing economic context in relation to occupational change, recreation, horse training, and horse-related accidents. In my discussion I conclude that horses serve as a unifying symbol in Amish society, reflect internal social differences among the Amish, and has changed its role within a social and economic context.
2012_SOAN_04678327.pdf	2012	"This study focuses on College of Wooster student-athletes and their nutritional beliefs. A few of the questions I have sought to answer include: How have student-athletes learned about nutrition?, What do they eat on a daily basis?,  How are their nutritional beliefs shaped by their identity as an athlete?,  and How do they feel nutrition affects their athletic performance?  To attempt to answer these questions, I consulted scholarly works and research that have been completed on the topic.  I was able to build upon research conducted on eating habits of college students; however, the study of the subgroup of college-athletes was lacking.  The theoretical framework for this project was based on four main individuals: Claude Fischler, Mary Douglas, Peter Farb, and George Armelagos.  These theorists have focused on eating as a way that the individual represents him or herself, the social intercourses developed around food, and the intrinsic value of eating for the individual and the group.   	 The main findings of this study include the argument that college students initially learn about eating and nutrition from their parents; however, they are open to change throughout the course of their individual lifetimes.  They receive new information from coaches, teammates, nutritionists, and the media.  It should be taken in to account that college student-athletes are different from the broader spectrum of college students. Although both male and female athletes take nutrition into account, the ways in which each gender makes food choices varies."
2012_SOAN_04678328.pdf	2012	This study investigates how parents select the names of their children. Anthropological research on naming is very sparse, despite the immense power of names to reflect cultural variables, such as: kinship, gender relations, socioeconomic class relations, and differences in taste and personal preference. I surveyed a sample of parents at three daycare facilities in a small town in the Midwest about their children’s names and how they chose those names. My findings indicate that kin naming plays a significant role, but many parents find a balance between choosing a name with “meaning” and choosing a name based on their personal taste and popular, contemporary aesthetics. This study found that many parents strive to individualize their children through naming, yet they also use it as a way to establish their children’s place in their kin network and culture.
2012_SOAN_04678329.pdf	2012	The purpose of this thesis is to understand the occupation of forensic anthropology. My research took place at a premier university for forensic anthropology in the US. This university was chosen because they have a forensic anthropological research facility. I interviewed eight people involved with the university's department of anthropology and the research facility. These people ranged from graduate students to the director of the facility. I analyzed the themes from these interviews using organizational culture theory. This theory was used because to understand the individuals, an understanding of the context in which they work is necessary. I discovered that forensic anthropologists experience a variety of challenges and rewards in the course of their work that is not explicit in the literature. The people I studied valued education, collaboration, and helping others.
2012_SOAN_04678330.pdf	2012	In order to better understand the recently formed alternative food movement of Farm to School programs I analyzed current literature on the topic and used such literature to guide my own case study of a Farm to School program. My case study involved interviews with individuals working within a Farm to School program including the Business Director, Head and Sous Chef, Consumer Family Studies teacher, and farmers. From each interview I pulled themes that were emphasized and examined these themes alongside findings from the literature. This analysis led me to find that Farm to School programs require a passionate individual behind it and must take into the desires and health of students. The program must also work to reach beyond the cafeteria, and requires changes to the operation of a cafeteria that have benefits and drawbacks. Because of the nature of my study I have also included the role of advocacy in my study as I look to offer help to my population. Together these components allow for an in-depth look at the operation of a Farm to School program.
2012_SOAN_04678332.pdf	2012	The research in this Senior Independent Research Study examines the synchronization of Hindu and American cultural elements and rituals in diasporic Hindu-American wedding ceremonies.  The study examines the key wedding rituals and symbols in these ceremonies to conclude that they help affirm and perpetuate a multicultural ethnic identity for the bride.  It demonstrates that certain wedding symbols, such as the dress, jewelry, and flowers, have a vocality of meaning in the Hindu-American context.  This analysis of the transformation of Hindu-American brides from maidenhood to womanhood, and from daughter to wife, shows how such wedding ceremonies represent a careful negotiation between distinctly Hindu and American models of ideal womanhood.  In doing so, it establishes how the women who were the contributors of the study were able to utilize both Hindu and American values and rituals in their wedding ceremonies to both shape and to affirm their multicultural identities.
2012_SOAN_04678333.pdf	2012	"This Independent Study is an autoethnography about the issues facing multi-ethnic identity focusing on Black-Native American identification. ""In the United States, race became the main form of human identity, and it has had a tragic effect on low-status ˜racial' minorities and on those people who perceive themselves as of ˜mixed race'"" (Smedley, 1999, 690). Through ethnographic interviewing and autoethnography I highlight the factors that affect the way Black-Native Americans self-identify based on internal and external situations. I prove through my research that identity is based on a number of factors: Blood or DNA, Family ethnicity, Phenotype, etc. and these factors affect the way a Multi-ethnic person identifies themselves or society identifies them."
2012_SOAN_04678334.pdf	2012	Refugees come in contact with a new culture once relocated to another country different from their own. They are therefore faced with the task of negotiating their own cultural identity in a new location. This study looks at how the Somali refugee women in Columbus, Ohio, address this task of negotiating and maintaining certain aspects of their culture. Through in-depth interviews, five Somali women in Columbus were asked to share their narratives. The women experience a shift in the structure of their families which now exist transnationally. This in turn decreases the ability for the extended family to fulfill their role as social supporters, and changes the structure of the household in Columbus. With this lost, the women play a vital role in choosing which aspects of their culture are sustained. Their religion, dress, language and food are selected as the necessary attributes to preserve. The women are therefore the keepers of their culture.
2012_SOAN_04678335.pdf	2012	This research is a study of first and second-generation Indian immigrants living in the United States. As such, the purpose of this paper is to discuss how first and second-generation Indian immigrants manage their cultural identity. Additionally, I examine the ways Indian immigrants see the concept of whiteness, how their cultural expression is valued or de-valued by the mainstream institution, and how the process of globalization impacts and influences transnational identity. The data for this research was gathered through several in-depth interviews of first and second-generation Indian immigrants living in the United States, and surveys, participant observation, and secondary research through scholarly articles complement these ethnographic methods. In addition to literature and ethnographic methods, this research is complemented by theories of Daniel Linger, Pierre Bourdieu, and Arjun Appadurai which deal with the ideas of identity, social and cultural capital, and globalization. The juxtaposition of these research methods gives a unique look at this very complex issue and provides a stepping stone for further research in this area.
2012_SOAN_04678337.pdf	2012	The present study investigates the affect agriculture had on the prevalence of the following four dental diseases or dental health issues: malocclusion, dental caries, antemortem tooth loss (AMTL), and dental abscesses.  Each disease is presently associated with a type of wear: maloccusion with abrasive-type wear and the remaining three diseases, with erosive-type wear.  Through analysis of previous studies, the dental wear patterns of preagricultural, early agricultural, and agricultural populations are compared and assessed in terms of general dental health and the cultural factors associated with their prevalence. Geographically, the study concentrates on the New World. The samples are drawing from prehistoric native populations of the Midwest with consideration of other North American and non-North American groups, when necessary. The primary research questions are: (1) What changes occurred among dentition after the transition from pregriculture to agriculture, and (2) has human dental health changed significantly since this transition in terms of identifiable wear patterns? Ultimately, the present study finds an increase in the prevalence of malocclusion and dental caries within the early agricultural and agricultural populations.  The cultivation of maize for dietary purposes and the use of ceramic technologies in the processing of foodstuffs appear to cause this increase.  The rates of AMTL and dental abscesses are generally maintained as subsistence strategies change.  A theoretical model that lends itself to evolutionary medicine defines the framework of analyses used in this examination.  Consequently, considerable attention is placed on cultural transitions and changes in health status occurring simultaneous to these shifts.
2013_SOAN_04678339.pdf	2013	This study investigates food preferences among students and how they are formed. Childhood obesity and food insecurity are two concepts that have had a significant amount of recent academic attention and are important issues faced by children. According to the CDC (Center for Disease Control), in 2010, more than one-third of children and adolescents in the U.S. were overweight or obese. For this research, I am attempting to determine how food preferences are formulated by grade school students. Surveys with students and parents, and interviews with faculty and administration, were conducted. A few of the questions I have sought to answer include: What effect does food have on academic success?, What is the role of the cafeteria environment on food selection?, What role does socioeconomic status have in influencing food selection?, and Do peers influence eating habits? To attempt to answer these questions, I consulted scholarly works and research that have been completed on the topic. The theoretical framework for this project was based on several concepts and individuals: Claude Fischler, Carole M. Counihan, Lindsay McLaren, Pierre Bourdieu, libertarian paternalism, and habitus. ii
2013_SOAN_04678340.pdf	2013	"In this research project, I investigate gender representations in Hip-Hop and how these gendered representations affect the identities of female Hip-Hop consumers. This study investigates the representation of those women who are labeled ""video vixens,"" which are the women in music videos who are depicted as sexual objects in the Hip-Hop culture.  Video vixens are viewed by younger women in a variety of ways, including as role models.  I want to determine how video vixens impact the self-images of female Hip-Hop consumers."
2013_SOAN_04678341.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study is to understand how museums can be used as a means of promoting social awareness through the reflection of different societal values. Through participant observation and in-depth interviews, this project explores the values exhibited by Empowering Women: Artisan Cooperatives That Transform Communities and the strategies used by museum administrators to convey these values to the greater community.
2013_SOAN_04678345.pdf	2013	The Renaissance faire is an event that brings together humor, history, and a wide array of live entertainment. In this Independent Study, I explore this venue and examine the humor in the stage performances. This study outlines other anthropological works focusing on the Renaissance faires as well as the various theories I use to enhance my own research understanding. The main theorists I look at include Victor Turner, Edie Turner, Keith Basso, Pamela Frese, and Barbara Babcock. I talk about how I use participant observation and interviews to research my population and list some ways I could improve upon these methods. The study culminates in an ethnographic walkthrough of an American Renaissance Festival and a detailed explanation of the different kinds of humor found there.
2013_SOAN_04678346.pdf	2013	The purpose of this Independent Study research project is to explore the multidimensionality of the Balinese term taksu in the context of performances, such as dance, shadow puppetry, and music.  The research begins with an examination of performance and dance scholars with an emphasis on Victor Turner's interpretations of ritual performance and Rites of Passage.  After a comprehensive review of dance, performance, and music, the field research for this study was conducted through interviews and participant observation over the course of two years.  The information gathered from the contributors was analyzed and coded into three categories: performance, Rites of Passage, and liminality.  During the liminal phase, taksu would manifest itself from the gods, from objects, or from ancestors.  Without taksu's blessing, the performance would be considered lifeless and unsuccessful.  The information about taksu revealed that it is selective in whom/when it chooses to manifest itself, and it has a variety of interpretations.  Ultimately, taksu is a multifaceted, metaphysical term that describes a spiritual power in the form of a blessing that enhances a performer during his or her performance.
2013_SOAN_04678347.pdf	2013	"The origins of environmentalism in German culture can be traced back to before the 19th century. An adoration and appreciation of nature has always outwardly existed and its role has been shaped and reshaped by changing society, national politics, economics, and pressing environmental issues of the time. Within the past few decades, Germany has set the tone for successful environmental politics, practices, and public policy. As individual citizens, Germans are known to be especially environmentally conscious, demonstrating a strong willingness to take a personal role in conservation. Scholars point to a variety of contributing factors that are essential to the development of individual environmental consciousness. An investigation of a particular aspect of German culture, my study involves the merging of social sciences, humanities, and cultural studies. Aspects of German studies, politics, and anthropology are both integrated and intertwined in order to provide a holistic study of culture. More specifically, the present study attempts to analyze the level of environmental consciousness among young Germans, who were born around the period of German reunification. My guiding research questions include the following: ""What is it about German culture that facilitates an environmental consciousness within its individual citizens?"", ""In what ways do political and social structures allow for the development of environmentalism as a major aspect of German culture?"", and ""Specifically, what are the environmental beliefs, concerns, and behaviors of the next generation of young Germans?"" Within this study, I attempt to better determine both the origins of and cultural reasoning behind this seemingly ingrained mentality and behavior."
2013_SOAN_04678348.pdf	2013	In recent years there has been a drastic increase in popular concern for the natural environment. In addition, anthropologists have increasingly explored the role of sports in a social context. Simon Darnell examined the roles that sports can play in establishing peace and furthering international development of communities. Works of this nature have pushed the idea that certain sports can in fact elicit change in communities and cultures. I argue that this idea should be true for fostering the development of environmentally conscious communities. Brock and Coglianese highlight population retention and motivation as the main problems with social groups. In this study I use an augmented version of Marvin Harris' cultural materialist analytical model to show the ethos of Ultimate Frisbee communities will resonate with ideals of environmentally conscious communities. Through this resonance, the sport of Ultimate Frisbee can provide a vehicle for propagating and maintaining environmental consciousness.
2013_SOAN_04678349.pdf	2013	With a general interest in how we as humans treat cattle and have placed such a high importance on them for our current and future lives, I am intrigued by the influence of cattle on current American culture. This study provides an evaluation of dairy and beef cattle farmers in Wayne County, Ohio, and their self-defined labels in terms of occupation and relationship to a herd. The following is an exploration of the economic, social, and ecological dimensions of raising cattle, and ultimately how cattle can be an influence on humanity. The research aims to determine how we place value on such a common animal, as well as define the value of cattle in modern society, through a focus on Ohio farmers.
2013_SOAN_04678351.pdf	2013	"The purpose of this research is to explore the paradigms and worldviews of individuals involved in contemporary U.S. agriculture in the context of anthropological and sociological literature. This includes examining current paradigms constructions, most importantly ""productivism"" and ""post-productivism"" by scholars and applying those paradigms to current actors within U.S. agriculture. Pierre Bourdieu and George Herbert Mead, renowned for their theories of habitus and Symbolic Interactionism respectively, will be the primary theorists discussed in this study as their works specifically relate to with how individuals structures their world and how they make decisions from that structure. The data for this research was gathered through in-depth interviews with a variety of actors engaged in some facet of the agriculture industry and primarily reside in the mid-west region of the United States. Finally, this study will conclude with hypotheses as to why certain paradigms are more prevalent in contemporary U.S. agriculture."
2013_SOAN_04678353.pdf	2013	This research explores the role that farmers' concerns about health and community autonomy play in the emergence of an organic agriculture movement in the village of Mae Ta in northern Thailand. In the midst of the push for export-oriented and urban-centered development, many rural people have migrated to urban areas for work or adopted contract farming of chemical-intensive cash crops. Yet farmers in Mae Ta chose a unique alternative: sufficiency-based organic polyculture. Why take on such a risk without solid policy and market support for organic agriculture in Thailand? I investigated these questions through six weeks of participant observation and 19 interviews with organic and conventional farmers and community members. I found that health concerns were among the most significant proximate causes of farmers' transitions to organic farming, but these concerns were not isolated to physiological effects of chemical application: they were tied to issues of food sovereignty and stress due to constrained autonomy. This research draws on Paul Farmer's theory of structural violence and health, as well as current debates revisiting and redefining the peasantry. Mae Ta farmers' decisions to convert to organic polyculture can be seen as a response to the impact of economic restructuring on the health of rural communities.
2013_SOAN_04678354.pdf	2013	"This study looks at how poverty and gender roles form structural constraints that dictate the daily lives of those living in Kibera and how these individuals are able to exhibit agency in spite of the inequalities they face. While staying with a host family in Kibera, I collected data for this study through formal interviews, informal interviews, and a questionnaire. Drawing on Paul Farmer's concept of structural violence, I show how girls and boys in Kibera must deal with lack of educational opportunities, lack of sanitation and health care, unemployment, and gendered marriage practices. At the same time, I use Pierre Bourdieu's concept of cultural capital and the work of Philippe Bourgois and Donna Goldstein on ""agency"" and urban poverty to illustrate how individuals find their own means of survival and try to take control of their lives through membership in churches, support groups, and gangs, as well as substance abuse and sex work. Sometimes these expressions of agency have positive outcomes, but more often than not they are self-inflicting and only further the marginalization of the individuals. In spite of the many obstacles and hardships they face, the individuals I interviewed still call Kibera their home."
2013_SOAN_04678355.pdf	2013	This study examines pan-Oceanic identity envisioned by Epeli Hau'ofa at The Oceania Center of Arts, Culture and Pacific Studies and the changes it has undergone over time. Drawing on the re-territorialization of culture, I ask why this movement emerged, what kinds of tensions have arisen, and how Hau'ofa's vision has changed over time. Through interviews and participant observation at OCACPS, I discovered three areas of tension- ethnicity, marketing/tourism and changing spatial relations. Instead of a community that represents all of Oceania, OCACPS has a strong Fijian presence. The new desire for marketing/tourism directly contradicts Hau'ofa's original vision of keeping tourism away from OCACPS. Finally, OCACPS has moved from a space where all worked and created under one roof to a space that has been physically divided and negotiated by the people daily. The original vision set forth by Hau'ofa may no longer be the guiding force of OCACPS, as the current artists and academics are engaged in an ongoing process of redefining the meaning of pan-Oceanic identity.
2013_SOAN_04678356.pdf	2013	This research project examines the interrelations between gender, monogamy, and infidelity among college students in the United States. The prevalence of infidelity is readily apparent in American culture with news crews rushing to cover the latest scandals, movies depicting steamy affairs, and journals boasting tips for how to keep a husband or wife satisfied in a relationship. While sociobiologists and evolutionary psychologists frequently explore the topic of infidelity as an aspect of human mating behavior, the discipline of anthropology has failed to systematically examine infidelity. Thus, this research project is designed to offer an alternative to the biologically deterministic approach of evolutionary psychology by exploring this topic through the theoretical perspectives of social constructionism and cultural hegemony. Fifteen college students were each asked to complete a quantitative word association activity followed by an in-depth interview. Ultimately, the statistical trends of the free-sort activity suggest that my respondents hold highly gendered views about the roles of men and women in society, but these gender distinctions all but disappeared in the interview component. This paper concludes with a brief discussion of the quantitative and qualitative methodological techniques employed resulted in different patterns of data, and suggests that there may be a paradigm shift in how gender and heteronormativity are perceived among college students. Future qualitative studies focusing upon gender and infidelity would be extremely beneficial to fully understand the effects culture has upon this highly stigmatized human behavior.
2013_SOAN_04678357.pdf	2013	This study examines identity and immigrant experience as understood by ethnically indigenous Guatemala Maya individuals. Present research on the topic is reviewed in the first chapter and provides a base understanding for the specific population of Dover, Ohio studied in this thesis. The study explores identity through categories of community, networks, language, background, and cultural preservation, with an anthropological postmodern approach. Analysis of the topic is done through of the review of in-depth interviews conducted among immigrants in the community. The findings of the research indicate that globalization has contributed to the expansion of the Maya immigrant experience in this specific population while also supporting existing literature.
2013_SOAN_04678358.pdf	2013	Many historians have studied the vast history of Rome and some anthropologists have begun to study the impacts of tourism on particular societies; however, few scholars have investigated the impacts of tourism on Roman society. This lack of research is surprising and quite interesting since Romans are one of the oldest civilizations in the world, and today, tourism is one of Rome's top industries today. Over the last 700 years, tourism in Rome has rapidly developed due to various attractions, including religion, academia, leisure, and marketed images. Therefore, the purpose of my research project is to investigate how tourism impacts the lives of Romans today. In order to understand this relationship, I interview 13 individuals who are familiar with Rome and its tourism. Their insight and opinions reflect the complex relationship that is tourism in Rome. Although tourism is currently believed to be mostly positive, the participants do voice concerns relating to Rome's future authenticity, commodification of culture, and the division mass tourism is bringing to the community. The data gathered from this study provides valuable information that needs to be taken into consideration for the future well-being of the Eternal City.
2013_SOAN_04678359.pdf	2013	This paper presents the empirical backing, theoretical backing, methodologies, and results of a study looking at trends in the use of various auditory phenomena and prosodic patterns of speech used in American television advertisements.  The age of targeted audiences, various categories of products, services, or causes featured in ads, and time length of television ads all proved to be significant factors in dictating how a television advertisement is designed to effectively persuade consumers to invest in featured phenomena.  Additionally, a descriptive analysis of prosodic features of speech revealed trends in an informative style of speech implemented in many ads, a dialect of American English that I am calling Informative-Persuasive Voice Persona, or IPVP.  These findings indicate that human thought and behavior may be more influenced by sound than we are currently aware of, and thus that research and regulation regarding the strategic use of prosodic patterns of speech apparent in television advertising should be considered by policymakers looking to preserve communicative quality in American culture as well as other cultures that speak English.
2008_SOAN_04678360.pdf	2008	This study explores the popularization of tattooing in contemporary American culture and the changing social perspectives on the practice of tattooing as a body modification habit. Using the theories of Erving Goffman, I discuss the effects of tattoos on social interactions. Norbert Elias discusses the body and identity as it is historically constructed through domination, and Alexandra Howson, examines the body in latemodern consumer culture. These theories are then used to evaluate the rise in tattooing, the reasons people get tattoos as well as reasons for possible attitude changes and how these changes came about. In attempting to determine these changes I conducted in depth interviews with a number of tattoo artists who have witnessed changes in the field of tattooing over the course of their lifetimes. This research gives evidence that there are far more people getting tattooed today, from a broad social spectrum. In addition we see that though there remain some negative stereotypes towards tattoos, they are becoming more accepted as a practice.
2008_SOAN_04678361.pdf	2008	This thesis explores women's positive and negative experiences with and opinions about pornography. There has been almost no sociological research on American women's use of pornography. My study uniquely combines qualitative and quantitative research with feminist theory and discourse analysis to produce its findings. The quantitative portion consists of the results and analyses of 90 questionnaires that were distributed to a random sample of women at the College of Wooster. The qualitative portion of this project consists of the results of in-depth interviews with ten College of Wooster women and shorter interviews with 17 female attendees of Adult Video News's Adult Entertainment Expo in Las Vegas, Nevada. Findings show that women have a wide and varied range of opinions, both positive and negative, about pornography. Interviewees across the spectrum of opinions about pornography expressed concern that women as a group have a problem with a lack of communication about sexual issues, which can result in a multitude of problems. Research also shows that female consumers are often pragmatic about their pornography use and have given it a lot of thought; furthermore, they were the ones most likely to be critical of pornography.
2008_SOAN_04678362.pdf	2008	This thesis explores the impact of Dengue fever on three Honduran unincorporated squatter settlements. The impact of Dengue fever is judged on the basis of Critical Medical Anthropology only in this study CMA is considered to encompass both politicaleconomic medical anthropology and critical-interpretive medical anthropology. As a result, Dengue fever is discussed as both as a disease of specific biological origin and a disease related to social-psychosomatic manifestations. The presence of both typologies of disease within unincorporated squatter communities is then regarded as a factor that could promote stronger communal ties within the communities and aid in the formation a distinct cultural collective in the Honduran urban core. The information for this study was collected through a series of 17 interviews with both community members and health centre officials. The interviews were focused on determining the overall presence of Dengue fever within the communities, management techniques, and likelihood of particular groups being affected more than others within the communities themselves. The results showed that the biological disease of Dengue was present within the communities but there was not enough data to determine conclusively if the socialpsychosomatic aspect of the disease was present. Regardless, the disease is considered to be present as both typologies for the purposes of this thesis.
2008_SOAN_04678363.pdf	2008	This thesis explores the role, meaning, and function of music in the lives of a community of elderly Americans. In order to explore these nearly cultural universals of aging and music, several methods of data collection were conducted at Towne Center, a residential care community in a suburb of Akron, Ohio. Several musical activities such as sing-alongs and musical entertainment were attended. In addition a content analysis of the SingAlong with ElderSong lyric booklet used during sing-alongs was performed. Ten interviews with residents were also carried out. Results show that music provides a means of re-creating history and memories of family and loved ones of the past. Both the lyrical content of the sing-alongs as well as responses from residents focused on loved ones. Further studies such as continuing research on ElderSong Publishers are suggested. An argument for increased research regarding music in the lives of elderly Americans is also made and implications for Towne Centre are recommended.
2008_SOAN_04678364.pdf	2008	This thesis explores factors contributing to likelihood of contribution on the part of College alumni to their Alma Mater institutions, as well as an investigation of the motivations for such giving. The project suggests that demographic variables including: age, race, gender and status as an international student may affect giving as well as membership in a religious organization and participation in volunteer activities. Emotional attachment to the institution as measured through the nature of the respondents memories of their time at college and their involvement in the institution, may also contribute to motivations for philanthropy. Research findings presented in this study based on survey data show that age as well as status as an international student has a significant effect on the likelihood of contribution.
2008_SOAN_04678365.pdf	2008	This thesis explores misunderstandings and conflicts that may arise in situations where Japanese and U.S. employees work together, as interpreted through Goffman's dramaturgical perspective and cognitive anthropology. Common factors found in research made it possible to develop loose hypotheses concerning inner-company relationships as affected by individualism and collectivism, and gender differentiation. This was accomplished through a snowball sample with 12 Japanese and U.S. participants who had experience working cross-culturally in Japanese and U.S. work environments. Results showed agreement with the hypotheses, in that tensions arise since Japanese work environments (collectivistic, more gender-differentiation) differ widely from U.S. work environments (individualistic, less gender differentiation). It was also found that newer Japanese companies have less gender differentiation and fewer expectations for employees to dedicate themselves to their companies, and that some participants no longer experienced discomfort after having adapted to their companies' cultures. Future research may include detailed studies on cross-cultural companies concerning Japanese and U.S. cultures, examining more modern Japanese and U.S. companies in comparison to more traditional ones.
2009_SOAN_04678366.pdf	2009	Victim-witness advocates are essential to the criminal justice system. The descriptive and explanatory study illustrates the role of victim-witness advocates, by articulating how they perceive and function in their role. Literature relevant to victim assistance programs is largely historical and descriptive, lacking information about advocates overall. Symbolic interactionism and victimology give a theoretical basis for how advocates understand their role. Interviews took place with nine advocates working in a prosecutor's office located in a New England State. Advocates discussed their experience in the field through descriptions of daily work, interaction with victims, and barriers facing their victim assistance program. Results showed that advocates have strong perceptions of their role in the criminal justice system and focus on making the criminal justice experience tolerable for victims, while keeping them involved and motivated. Advocates act as communicative liaisons between victims and other criminal justice professionals by informing and supporting victims. Advocates use their unique training experience to cope with barriers that affect their jobs and victim assistance programs as a whole. Some barriers such as funding and locating victims, led to policy implications for the study that propose increased funding and better methods for finding victims. Future research suggested the use of longitudinal or cross-sectional studies comparing multiple programs.
2009_SOAN_04678367.pdf	2009	This study examines the differences that exist between religious, faith-based, and secular community development organizations. For the purpose of this study, community development organizations were defined as social agencies that promote the welfare of individuals and families in the community through programming, outreach, and other services. Data was collected through interviewing staff and volunteers at a faith-based organization, a religious congregation, and a secular community organization in Ohio. Questions addressed the programming, daily operations, benefits to the community, limitations, and client impact at each organization. Results suggest that faith-based and religious agencies differ from secular agencies in how they advertise services, the recruitment and use of volunteers, how employees viewed their work and each other, and the personal motivation of staff members. The overall differences were not as prominent as expected based off of previous literature, but the differences do exist. Further research could include a wider variety of agencies, and should pose additional questions about religiosity and motivation to the staff members at secular organizations.
2009_SOAN_04678368.pdf	2009	This thesis looks at Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in regard to major industries. The goal of this thesis is to answer the question of whether or not companies are adhering to CSR and why. This will be done using an explanation of Ulrich Beck's theory of globalization as well as Karl Marx's classical capitalism theory and neo--Marxian theory. There are three industries examined and each represents an important part of everyday life. Within each industry there was one global or international company selected. They are respectively GlaxoSmithKline (pharmaceuticals), BP (oil and energy) and R.J. Reynolds (tobacco). The research was done by looking at the companies' websites and gathering information on how they presented themselves and then comparing the data with information from news articles. The results of this research showed that across the four dimensions; human rights and ethics, health, education and advertising. There was data that showed that companies were not adhering fully to CSR policies and practices. According to the research human rights and ethics, health and advertising supported Marxian and neo-Marxian theory while education supported Beck's theory of globalization. This research explains how these industries are prompting themselves how they are adhering to their claims and a theoretical explanation of why.
2009_SOAN_04678369.pdf	2009	This study is an overview of agrarian social movements amongst academic institutions in Ohio. Academic institutions occupy a unique position within the agricultural system as they have the resources to promote economic, scientific and social change within agriculture. Both the overt, organized agricultural initiatives and passive impacts are identified and assessed in relation to social movement theory. These agricultural initiatives are assessed in how they address the social and environmental problems that scholars have identified as inherent in the industrial agricultural system. These problems are described from the perspective of a Marxist analysis, as many inequalities within agriculture are the result of capitalist exploitation.
2009_SOAN_04678370.pdf	2009	For my Independent Study project, I have focused on the alternative early childhood education model of the Waldorf School and the importance of dramatic play and how it fits into the curriculum. This study explores the social nature of childhood play and more specifically, how children's experiences and development within dramatic play differ in an outdoor environment versus an indoor environment. Two schools were chosen for the study: Mother Earth Kindergarten, part of the Shining Star Waldorf School, in Portland, Oregon and Spring Garden Waldorf School in Copley, Ohio. I observed preschool and kindergarten aged children during free play while using a criteria developed by Sara Smilansky (1968), with six elements that determine and evaluate the level of dramatic (symbolic) play among children. There were subtle differences between indoor and outdoor play regarding make-believe play with objects and verbalization among the children, as there was less of a focus on objects and toys during outdoor play. In both the indoor and outdoor environments, there was a strong amount of social interaction and communication between the children, as well as their teachers. The environments at the Waldorf schools foster dramatic play and have a significant role in how children develop, socially, mentally, physically and emotionally. Therefore, this suggests that our society needs to get more children outside, enjoying unstructured play and better understanding the world around them.
2009_SOAN_04678371.pdf	2009	"This thesis explores sociological theories on how the mass media is both a victim and a perpetuator of the ""culture of fear"" as seen in Western societies. By fusing this perspective with Ulrich Beck_s concept of ""risk society,"" I discuss how in late modernity, we face certain environmental risks because the progress paradigm encouraged industrialization at the expense of natural resources and the health of the planet. There exists a general sense of anxiety among the American population because we are ""disenchanted"" with the ability of science to address the problem of science-induced climate change. Through content analysis on the portrayal of global warming in Time and Scientific American magazines, I tracked the use of fear-evoking language (adjectives, metaphors, normative claims, and some visuals) from 1977 to 1987 and from 1997 to 2007. Results showed that emotive language did not increase as we moved into and through this culture of fear, but that the magazines did maintain an overall heightened concern about global warming. I make theoretical conclusions about the increasing importance of politics in addressing environmental risks as well as how the media constructs a reality of global warming that reflects our anxiety concerning the instability of late modernity."
2009_SOAN_04678372.pdf	2009	"In recent memory, weight lifting and physical fitness has become a rising phenomena in our society. Many people partake in it for their health and others do it to obtain a better body, but there is another subculture within this gym crowd that many people do not know about. They are male ""College of Wooster"" athletes, but centralized on the football team. The football players are the ones that use weight lifting as a way to improve their athletic performance such as running faster or hitting opponents harder. However, there are other issues that many people do not understand such as body image issues. I will sit and observe their habits within the gym setting, but take part in their activities; lifting weights, doing cardio sessions, general social activities, and whatever else can allow me to gain a foothold into their mental world. Beyond this I will try and do a few one-on-one interviews and collect surveys. My goal this year, with my I.S. project, is to immerse myself within this culture and experience firsthand what motivates these men in their quest for perfection on and off the field. I have been an athlete my entire life, which has given me the opportunity to be  around every level of athlete from world class to ""Average Joes"". Within my own research, I want to explore what motivates athletes to develop a muscular body. This could range from positive attention they receive from having a desired look to the pressure they feel to maintain this look. The anxiety and homophobia associated with caring about ones body too much from the perspective of masculinity. Finally, I would like to examine the way ideals of the perfect body and goals change from athletes to graduating seniors."
2009_SOAN_04678373.pdf	2009	This study examines gender representation in first grade basal readers. Basal readers provide a representative sample of materials children are exposed to while reading. A content analysis is conducted on the illustrations and texts found in first grade basal readers from the Silver Burdett Ginn (1993), Houghton Mifflin (2005), and Macmillan McGraw-Hill (2007) publishing companies. The study examines the number of female and male characters, the types of characteristics female and male main characters portray, and the depiction of adult characters in basal readers. Sex-Role Socialization and Sex-Role Theory, Doing Gender Theory, and Gender as Structure Theory are applied to the data collected in the study. These theoretical models provided a framework for analyzing how gender representation in basal readers is affected by society and how it affects society. I found that males continue to be the dominant gender portrayed in basal readers. However, female characters are depicted with both traditional and non-traditional characteristics, while males are limited to more traditionally masculine traits. Adults are most often found in traditional roles. Future studies are suggested for the continuation of analysis of gender representation in children's literature to maintain awareness of the social factors children are exposed to while reading.
2009_SOAN_04678374.pdf	2009	This thesis explores the factors that affect the ability of residents, specifically low-income blacks, to succeed in Cincinnati's Over-the-Rhine. Success is defined as the ability to secure an income, secure acceptable housing and care for a family (if applicable). The factors that were addressed included stigma, jobs, housing, parenting education, and non-profits/renewal. This study used an ethnographic approach and relied heavily on interviews and participant observation. Results showed that the difficulties of growing up in a neighborhood like Over-the-Rhine is an interplay of all of the factors studied. The most recognized of these factors by respondents was stigma. It also suggested that a mixed-income development pattern is most beneficial for both the lowincome and upper-class residents of Cincinnati. Future research is suggested focusing on a more complete analysis of factors that affect Over-the-Rhine's residents.
2009_SOAN_04678376.pdf	2009	Throughout the United States, hundreds of thousands of children from impoverished backgrounds face obstacles in attaining higher education. This study investigates factors conducive to academic success within College of Wooster students from low and moderately low-income households. Both quantitative and qualitative methodological approaches were used to best identify and understand lower income students' family structure, previously attended schools, and social environment. The sample population consisted of predominantly white students, yet displayed diversity in terms of income, family structure, family educational history, high school location (urban, suburban, rural), and high school type (public, private). The data revealed high levels of parental involvement, expectations, and education, along with consistent student participation in extracurricular activities. Students from low and moderately low-income backgrounds are much more likely to succeed academically with the support of their parent(s), high schools, outside programs, and personal drive. Analysis revealed many College of Wooster students reporting family incomes of $50,000 or less are equipped with various forms of capital fostering their academic success, atypical of their income levels. Thus, students from the nation's most disadvantaged neighborhoods are severely underrepresented at Wooster and other well regarded institutions of higher learning. Changes in college admissions policies and an increase in the number and effectiveness of high school programs are necessary to close the growing education gap in the United States.
2009_SOAN_04678378.pdf	2009	This work is a study of the cultural transmission of Chinese mythical beings into the Western cultural sphere. Using textual analysis and interviews with Chinese and Chinese-Americans in the United States, I engaged in the hermeneutical process so as to create a comprehensive understanding of the cultural translation of these mythical creatures. Throughout this process I reevaluated and redeveloped my personal understanding of the nature of these beings and found, unexpectedly, the significant role of a creature's visual appearance in its transmission into the Western cultural realm.
2009_SOAN_04678379.pdf	2009	"My Independent Study looks at anthropological engagement with the military, Can anthropology help the military to perform missions more efficiently? Should anthropologists support engagement with the military? Anthropology has the ability to curb the amount of damage the military can do when deployed, My methods included using a case study of the Culture and Language Center at Air University of Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, Alabama. I interviewed the staff at the Center, did participant observation and did content analysis of the Center and Air University's websites, Through a cross-cultural competence course, the Center is attempting to help Airmen be more efficient in their missions through influence. I was not expecting to hear anthropologists suggesting ""influence"" as the solution to the military's cross-cultural problems, The way anthropologists engage with the military is changing. My results show that, provided both anthropologists and the military proceed in an ethical manner, engagement and influence can save lives on both sides of enemy lines."
2010_SOAN_04678380.pdf	2010	This thesis explores the subculture feudals have maintained in Pakistan, since the partition of India and Pakistan, and how this subculture has maintained traditional gender roles while having an influence Pakistani politics (current President of Pakistan is a feudal). It further explores various practices of the subculture, which can be viewed as ways to subordinate women's roles in Pakistani society. Although, there are five subcultures in Pakistan, feudals subculture has the most influence in politics, and through this thesis I attempt to explain the reasons behind their domination. This thesis was conducted by interviewing feudal men and feudal women in Pakistan. Results have implied that feudals believe men and women are naturally born different, the latter being the weaker gender. Additionally, they show the influence feudals play in Pakistani politics. Future research may strengthen these results. For future research, there should be an increased number of participants; specifically, un-educated feudals, residing in rural areas of Pakistan. To further strengthen this research, government authoritative figures should be interviewed as well.
2011_SOAN_04678381.pdf	2011	This thesis investigates the Wayne County Intensive Supervision Probation (ISP) program in terms of effectiveness, determined by looking at recidivism rates of a group of 74 individuals within the first, second, and third year after ISP termination.  Whether or not they completed the program was compared to whether or not they had committed a felony within the first 12, 24, and 36 months after finishing ISP.  Data was additionally collected from admission and termination statistics between the years 2007 and 2010 and exit surveys that are distributed to those terminated in 2009-2010.  Additionally, two focus groups were held, of current and past ISP participants, to determine not only how ISP is effective, but why.  Questions were asked in relation to four particular criminological theories; differential association, control, anomie/strain, and labeling, to gain information regarding why ISP was effective.  Throughout the compared data, success on ISP did have a statistically significant relationship with employment status, amount of money earned on ISP, and whether or not the participant completed vocational training.  Other indicators of possible success included strong family and peer relations, gaining skills and employment through ISP, as well as being able to avoid prison all together. While the connection between completion of the program and recidivism was not statistically significant, there was a clear relationship.
2011_SOAN_04678383.pdf	2011	This thesis examines how young people in America have used particular songs, 'anthems,' to define themselves in the last fifty to sixty years. The researcher examines the context in which several songs that have remained in the public consciousness became popular, and what it was about a particular song that made it stand out at the time and remembered long after its release. Should be used by students who are interested in looking at the relationship between the arts, particularly music, and society.
2011_SOAN_04678384.pdf	2011	Since 1964, the designation and subsequent preservation of federal land as wilderness has generated social and environmental change in the Mountain West. These vast and often spectacular areas have attracted a population of wealthy second-homeowners and tourists, and have established the presence of the federal government in this region via the Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management. While native ecosystems are restored and preserved within wilderness areas, the fate of adjacent, unprotected, lands is often contested. Nearby communities, then, are confronting these changes in the population and landscape. This thesis examines the role of certain social and economic structures in shaping perceptions of wilderness held by residents of Ketchum, Stanley, and Challis, Idaho, three small towns with very different demographics and economies. Thorstein Veblen's Theory of the Leisure Class, Max Weber's Class, Status, and Party, and Allan Schnaiberg's Environmental Values Theory provide a theoretical framework that addresses the intricacies of socio-economic stratification and the influence of class position on attitudes towards land use. In-depth interviews give residents of Ketchum, Stanley, and Challis the opportunity to express perspectives and interpretations of changes wrought by the establishment of Wilderness, and demonstrate the complexity of this issue. The relationship between these communities and nearby wilderness areas is a product of residents' economic dependence on or independence from the land, attitudes towards the federal government, social class, and environmental values.
2011_SOAN_04678385.pdf	2011	This thesis explores the methodological approaches reintegration programs employ to assimilate trafficked persons back into the social, economic, and cultural norms of a community.  Through content analysis of reintegration guides and a comprehensive theoretical analysis, this study identifies the common expectations concerning the needs trafficked individuals may have upon exiting their trafficked situations.  Furthermore, this report examines the reintegration tactics utilized to address the social and economic vulnerabilities of trafficked persons.  The results indicated in the process illustrate the general expectations service providers have of a post-trafficked individual.  Frequent expectations include dependency, shame, low self-esteem, mental and physical health concerns, and others.  According to the identified characteristics, reintegration programs apply particular methods in order to attend to these concerns.  As a result of these findings, reintegration programs appear to focus on issues concerning the ability of a trafficked person to live independently while maintaining the social and cultural standards of mainstream society.
2011_SOAN_04678386.pdf	2011	This thesis explores the potential of charter schools and public schools to overcome the reproduction of social class that is theorized by Pierre Bourdieu (1990). My hypothesis is that charter schools are more capable of overcoming social reproduction because they are not bound by the same restrictions as are public schools. I test this using interviews with teachers, administrators, and parents of students as well as participant observation in classrooms at charter and public schools in St. Paul, Minnesota. I find that the use of test scores and labels in schools are socially reproductive mechanisms, and I assess how schools use these mechanisms and whether they offer other things to students that might improve their chances of success. In partial confirmation of my hypothesis, I find that though charter schools are not necessarily less reproductive of social class than public schools, they are, in fact, structurally more capable of overcoming it. Finally, I investigate how much test scores matter in class formation by investigating whether colleges emphasize them. I test this by analyzing an interview with an admissions counselor at a selective liberal arts college as well as a couple of studies measuring what colleges look for in the admissions process. I find that colleges do rely on upper class mechanisms, and therefore negate any progress against social reproduction that has been made in primary and secondary school.
2011_SOAN_04678388.pdf	2011	This thesis explores societal expectations of dance and performance, specifically in regard to the current college-aged generation of American society. In order to understand what individuals' expectations of dance and performance are and how they are created and perpetuated by society, survey questionnaires were distributed to 101 current students at the College of Wooster. Participants were first asked to provide their initial expectations of dance and performance then given a series of video clips to watch and respond to in regard to six aspects of dance and performance. Three theoretical perspectives were employed to understand the research data. Additionally, research was conducted on the post-modern movement of dance and the performance art group Fluxus, both of which aimed to eliminate preexisting expectations of dance and performance. Quantitative results showed that ultimately structure outweighs agency, the primary social force influencing expectations of dance and performance may be the mass media, and it is seemingly impossible to remove these societal expectations. Qualitative results showed that (1) participants better understand traditional ideals of dance and performance over experimental dance and performance and, thus, prefer the traditional and (2) the aspect of 'entertainment' plays a large role in participants' aesthetic value of a piece.
2012_SOAN_04678389.pdf	2012	HIV & AIDS have had profound impacts on the lives of gay men in America. In 1980, when the AIDS epidemic first appeared it stole the lives of thousands of gay men. The extreme number of casualties has been attributed to lack of urgency and care from the United States Government. While the government did play a substantial part in the neglect that those infected and affected experienced, there is a set of complex relationships that also aided in the neglect. One such conflict that I explore is the relationship between gay liberation and AIDS prevention efforts. I explore the way that that all of these factors are related by applying a multi-dimensional analysis to Larry Kramer's Tony Award winning play, The Normal Heart.  Literature suggests that using theatre as an outlet to oppression is not a new strategy. Activists have been employing theatre for this task for centuries. I intend to discover how and why theatre was especially useful for AIDS awareness. With the help of social movement theories and content analysis of The Normal Heart, I am able to paint a picture that can begin to explain why Theatre was so influential in this movement.
2012_SOAN_04678390.pdf	2012	With the decline of art educational programs within many public educational institutions, the role of non-profit community art organizations is becoming increasingly important. This study investigates the specific roles of community murals and mural programs within urban spaces. The results are drawn from the analysis of semi-structured interviews conducted with six individuals. These individuals were selected as they were employed in a variety of capacities by either 'Great Murals' or 'Wall Arts.' The results are analyzed under six main categories which emerge from the data: structure and operations of the organizations; transformation of spaces; giving voice and empowerment; attainment of skills; equality of medium and space; and last, the role of mural content in an image-based society. Most importantly, the mural programs are found to be a source of cultural and social capital for community members; allow for community engagement of diverse constituents; empower, give voice to and transform communities; and lastly, many of the murals themselves constitute new types of images within their communities, mixing values of traditional painting with advertisement strategies, selling not a material object but instead a social issue or view.
2012_SOAN_04678391.pdf	2012	"The standardization of higher education has yielded a variety of colleges and universities that are designed for a variety of students. While many public universities place their focuses on enhanced technical training and with providing students with degrees in business and accounting, liberal arts colleges are designed to provide a holistic education that produces critical thinkers. The mission statements of these schools use words like ""community,"" ""independent thinking,"" and ""diversity"" to convey the type of education they want to provide. This research project focuses on the ""sale"" of diversity at liberal arts colleges and the effects that it has on students and on campus climates. Max Weber's theories of bureaucracy and power are used, along with Bourdieu's theories of cultural capital and habitus, to establish the structural framework that leads to the commoditization of diversity. Critical Race Theory is used to explain how this structural approach ignores inherent inequality. Student interviews and surveys supplement this data in order to provide a snapshot of the perceptions of students at a Midwestern liberal arts college with regard to their campus' ability to adequately support diversity."
2012_SOAN_04678392.pdf	2012	The primary objective of this research study at the College of Wooster was to evaluate the relationship between various social factors and athletic performance under pressure. Both survey and interview methods were used to uncover significant trends involving gender, race, class year, sport type, and relationships involving sports. The survey portion of this study's research included responses from 166 participants while the interview portion of this study's research included responses from 16 participants. Using a thorough review of recent scholarly literature, a composed theoretical framework, and a systematic methodology, this study produced several significant findings contributing to the field of sociological research on athletic performance under pressure. A college student-athlete's relationship with their father was the most significant influential factor on athletic performance under pressure for all of the study's demographic groups. This finding, along with various other relevant findings, helps us in determining which factors student-athletes attribute their success to and exactly how those different influences are measured.
2012_SOAN_04678393.pdf	2012	This study examines how the Chevrolet Corvette has influenced the development American hegemonic masculine ideals in post WWII United States. A content analysis of print advertisements for the Chevrolet from 1959 to 2011 was conducted. This study examines the way the Chevrolet Corvette has been advertised in the United States, and how it has shaped the way American men view masculinity. Doing Gender Theory, Advertising Theory, and Hegemonic Masculine Theory are all applied to the advertisements used in the study. These theoretical models supplied the framework for the way Chevrolet's advertisements shaped America's understanding of what masculinity represents. I found that the Corvette was associating itself with a specific type of masculinity, one that caters to affluent, middle age, white males.
2012_SOAN_04678394.pdf	2012	"Can you remember the first time in your life when you thought to yourself: ""Do other people see me the same way as I see myself""? You may be aware of the general period in time when you started to ask yourself that question, but you're probably not able to pick out a specific point in time when you first did. Do you think others' perceptions of you have remained stagnant throughout your entire life? Probably not. You've gone to a few different schools, you've likely belonged to various groups of friends, and you've perhaps even had an assortment of different jobs; and in each of those new social settings, there's a good chance that you altered your identity to some extent. Throughout your life, you've been creating and maintaining a personal identity. An identity that's always been changing, and will always continue to change. Everything you do, every person with whom you interact, and every position you hold in life will shape your identity in various ways. For boys in our society, a very common identity one can create for oneself is one of masculinity. When boys tend to begin creating this identity, though, they do not realize they're doing so; they usually just want to be cool, fit in, and/or act like other boys around them, and, in doing so, they help to build and perpetuate a notion of masculinity. Some boys struggle with this, other boys seem to ""naturally"" be masculine, while others, at times, seem to deliberately challenge the idea of masculinity and its supposed importance in our society. The concept of identity formation has interested me for quite some time. Specifically, the value and importance our society associates with masculinity and various identities that surround the idea for boys and men. Why do certain boys and men value the qualities of an Ã¼ber masculine identity, while others associate no personal value whatsoever with the concept?  In my study, I attempt to uncover and decipher the ways by which boys perceive masculinity, as well as they ways they develop and act out a personal masculine identity."
2012_SOAN_04678395.pdf	2012	"This project explores the question of what a teacher is, as defined by teachers. Teachers identify how they understand themselves within their respective roles, categorizing themselves as an ""Agent"" or ""Object"" of change in the classroom. I also hoped to discover the ways in which their self-concept might impact the institution of education, as measured by teachers and formal assessment scores. I sampled two populations of teachers from a small town (SCH1) and urban demographic (SCH2), respectively. Teachers from each district in grades K-6 responded to a series of questions constructed to capture their individual experiences. Through a theoretical foundation in symbolic interactionism, dramaturgy, and labeling theories, I constructed a conceptual model through which I categorized how teachers defined themselves and influenced student success. My findings suggest that most teachers identify themselves as ""Agents,"" despite their immediate setting. My results also found that a far larger percentage of SCH1 students met state indicators in Math, Science, and Reading than did SCH2 students. This suggested a difference in the level of teachers' expectations for students, which is defined as students' progress pass their initial state, via assessments and value added approaches."
2012_SOAN_04678396.pdf	2012	"With the growing interest in the state of our current food system, food deserts have captured the attention of the public. However, much of the research on food deserts focuses on establishing definitions, understanding food access barriers, and presenting homogenous narratives of food desert life without understanding how residents construct their food environments. This study fills this gap by exploring how residents of food deserts in Cleveland, Ohio define their food environment. It uses theories like Olin Wright's perspective on class, Massey and Denton's explanation of racial residential segregation, Goffman's stigma theory, and Bourdieu's habitus theory. This study provides a fresh perspective by analyzing focus groups and incorporating participant generated photos. The findings suggest that despite the common description of food deserts, certain individuals have constructed ""alternative identities."" While neighborhoods demonstrate food desert characteristics, participants do not fall victim to structural barriers and actively work to seek out fresh food."
2012_SOAN_04678397.pdf	2012	This study researches how dominant American football is in American sport culture. The study also examines why American football is dominant in American sport culture. To answer these questions the theory of Religion by Emile Durkheim was used to look at football as a religion. The methods used were semi -structured interviews, document analysis, and observation. The finding show that football is a religion because it uses totems of the sacred and profane unites people of America, and the game is passed through generations. Additional findings were football is so entertaining to Americans because the aspect of strategy. Cheerleading is a very powerful tool for women to be integrated and learn the game. These aspects are the reason football has become the most popular sport in America.
2012_SOAN_04678398.pdf	2012	This study looks at cultural loss within the Tibetan refugee community in the Jawalakhel Settlement of Katmandu, Nepal due to forced migration. This research hypothesizes that the cultural disintegration between the generation of Tibetans raised in Tibet and those raised in exile will create generational stratification within the ethnic group. Examination of the concept of allegiance, intergenerational discrepancies and identity begs the question: can physical separation from one's homeland to a resettlement country located just on the border still result in drastic cultural depletion? All three aforementioned notions are applied to and analyzed with Karl Mannheim's theory of generations and Benedict Anderson's idea of nationalism. Key findings are Tibetan's displacement and resettlement culminating in lack of Tibetan cultural homogeneity. Lack of Tibetan cultural homogeneity is found to lead to recurrent feelings of separation and detachment from Tibetan culture, society and identity.
2012_SOAN_04678399.pdf	2012	This thesis explores one of the most commonly practiced forms of violence against women in Bangladesh: acid attack. Bangladesh has traditionally been a male-dominated society that has permitted the perpetuation of such horrific crime against women. Despite the dangerous nature of the problem, acid violence is not as widely recognized by the global society as other social problems that the state faces. Through semi-structured interviews, nonparticipant observation, document analysis and content analysis, this study identifies the root causes of acid attack and the reasons for its stubborn survival. In addition, this report examines the country's characteristics that hinder the efforts of the organizations - the Acid Survivors Foundation (ASF) and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) Bangladesh - that work for the complete eradication of the phenomenon. The results reveal the major push factors of acid throwing as impunity, revenge for various disputes and easy access to acid. Furthermore, both ASF and UNICEF express criticism towards the state for its failure to effectively respond to the vicious cultural crime that severely affects the holistic health of the victims. Various sociological theories, such as Talcott Parsons' functionalism, Michel Foucault's framework of the Panopticon and the transnational advocacy network theory, are applied to strengthen the findings.
2012_SOAN_04678400.pdf	2012	This comparative case study explores the problems of food deserts in Youngstown, Ohio and their work to eradicate them. This case compares four different food justice groups and hypothesizes that successful food justice groups will embodied a working class-culture perspective and will have to cooperate with the state and avoid cooption. The case concluded that this model has strong analytical power and that future research should be conducted on these issues because of a lack of research.
2012_SOAN_04678401.pdf	2012	This research applies to women ages 36 to 52 and their struggles through weight gain into weight loss in accordance to the medical, social, and personal factors bestowed upon them. I conducted nine in-depth interviews with seven women and two medical professionals to give their personal experiences and opinions on the subject of weight gain and loss. Within these interviews, the main topics were the weight loss industry, medical opinion, family, and personal issues with media images and comparisons to other women. These interviews showed that there is a communication gap between this age group of women and the medical field. Women are more in tune to social media rather than their health, while the medical professionals believed this to be the opposite. For weight gain, there were numerous reasoning's to why women in their middle-ages gain weight, with motherhood being highlighted. This age group also has a more holistic view on weight loss, where they focus more on lifestyle changes rather than specific numbers. To lose weight, all of the women spent a certain amount of money, whether it was a weight loss program, health foods, gym memberships, or a simple workout DVD. Within this, they depend on their family members for support and motivation.
2012_SOAN_04678402.pdf	2012	This study analyzed prior research on racism, the stacking phenomenon in the NFL and the influence of sports media outlets on the issues. It incorporated sociological theories such as Goffman‟s framing theory, Mead‟s social interactionism theory and critical race theory. This was done by doing a content analysis of NFL game recaps in ESPN articles for the entire 2011-2012 NFL season for eight quarterbacks (4 Black and 4 White). The intent of the study was to investigate the way media portrays and describes quarterbacks in historically racist terms depending on race of the quarterback. The study analyzed the difference in frequency of physical and intellectual comments of Black and White quarterbacks as well as the frequency of positive and negative comments made in each area. The overall findings determine that while media does not ignore Black‟s intellectual abilities at quarterback, Black quarterbacks are much more positively talked about in positive athletic terms than intellectual and White quarterbacks are still looked at in more positive intellectual terms and are still not as widely recognized as athletic.
2013_SOAN_04678403.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study is to gain insight into the personal and ideological motivations behind activists becoming involved in the campaign against hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is a natural gas drilling process that has been linked to ground water contamination, wellhead explosions, and toxic air emissions to name a few. It has become environmental justice issue, as it is perceived by many citizens as having adverse effects on the people and communities where drill sites have been placed. Through the methods of participant observation, in-depth interviews, and surveys this study aims to understand and learn about the reasons that activists are taking a stance of opposition. Some areas of motivation that will be explored during the study include external (demographic) factors and internal factors (i.e. values). The study will also identify barriers that may prevent individuals from engaging in responsible environmental behavior. Furthermore, as hydraulic fracking is an environmental justice issue, this study will serve as a model to explain trends of activist motivations for participating in other environmental justice campaigns within the United States.
2013_SOAN_04678404.pdf	2013	"This study examines the contemporary smartphone as a cultural artefact. Through autoethnography, ethnographic interview, and theoretical discourse, this study examines a range of perspectives toward the smartphone and the larger, ongoing computing revolution which began in the 20th century. This study is exploratory, and provides any number of positions from which further research can be developed on the evolution of social life in and around computers in contemporary Western societies."
2013_SOAN_04678405.pdf	2013	This research measures why young adults choose to get married. I designed my own survey, which was distributed to College of Wooster students and alumni. I used frequencies and cross-tabs in order to see which factors have the greatest impact on the students and alumni's desire to marry. I use relevant research from sociology and anthropology, as well as history and psychology to discuss why certain factors are important in the decision to marry. The theories of Arnold van Gennep, Niklas Luhmann, and Axel Honneth to deepen the understanding as to why marriage is still a valued institution. Ultimately, most young adults' have multiple motivations to get married. The motivation that is unique to marriage is the legal recognition of love which, according to my theoretical analysis, contributes to the development of the self.
2013_SOAN_04678406.pdf	2013	The focus of this study is to explore the purpose of Slutwalks and their perceived role in society. Slutwalk is a grassroots radical feminist protest against the phenomena of slut shaming and victim blaming. Much controversy surrounds this new form of feminist protest; the controversy needs to be examined in order to understand the goals and purpose of the Slutwalk. Some would argue that Slutwalks are not accessible to the entire population or all feminists. Slutwalks have arisen out of a culture that labels female victims as deviant. We must understand how this trend and the politics of victimization have evolved if we intend to understand the purpose of Slutwalks. Slutwalk as a new form of feminist protest has great potential to influence the future of the feminist movement as well as how society views victimization.
2013_SOAN_04678407.pdf	2013	This qualitative study examines the social practices and behaviors of members of Twin Oaks Community, attempts to discern the factors that have led to its success, and analyzes these factors to form a bridge between their largely nonreligious belief system and practices of religious intentional communities.  Through participant observation and a series of in-depth interviews, it can be concluded that Twin Oaks is successful in large part because of its shared value system, mandatory labor process, and collective rejection of mainstream society, particularly modern capitalism.
2013_SOAN_04678408.pdf	2013	Sociological researchers such as David Jacobson and Neal Krause illustrate that support that comes from interpersonal relationships positively impacts the health and wellness of older adults. At a time when the lifespan of individuals is ever-increasing (Fagan 2003), understanding social support networks is important to the livelihood of adults over the age of 65. This study is an analysis of social support networks of 19 residents living in an independent housing community in Brookline, Massachusetts and utilizes Goffman's theories of stigma and total institutions and Foucault's theory of discipline of the body. In-depth interviews reveal that support for older adults comes predominantly from friends, family, and formal and informal groups outside of the building, and it highlights how this support is related to time, locality, and connection. These results suggest that older adults may benefit from either multi-generational or non-institutionalized housing that would allow for a more positive atmosphere in regard to interpersonal relationships within living facilities.
2013_SOAN_04678409.pdf	2013	The number of parents participating in high schools every year is declining and the rankings of public schools are constantly being scrutinized in the media. Few sociological studies have been done on how all of this challenges parent perceptions of their child's education. Using nine in-depth, personal interviews with parents of high school children to gain personal stories and experiences of their time spent in a public education system, this study explores the perceptions of parents on their child's education, understanding the role of race and socioeconomic status with those perceptions. Theories that apply the role of socioeconomic status to a child's success will be used in the analysis of the interviews conducted. The findings of this study suggest that we can ignore the idea of socioeconomic classes and race when discussing parent perceptions but rather look at their level of involvement and the needs of their child.
2013_SOAN_04678411.pdf	2013	This study examined Census data to determine the long-term effects of the devastating 1997 Red River flood on the population of Grand Forks, North Dakota. I selected Census variables and developed hypotheses based both on existing disaster literature and fifteen in-depth interviews with Grand Forks residents. Analysis occurred through the construction of crosstabs that compared Grand Forks to Fargo and North Dakota in the years 1990, 2000 and 2010, in order to evaluate the percentage change in each Census variable relative to an analogous city and its home state. The crosstabs also included each of the City of Grand Forks' twelve Census tracts in order to assess how regions of the city differed in their demographic development following the flood. Results indicated that although Grand Forks did exhibit variations from Fargo and North Dakota in many of the crosstab variables, by 2010 most of Grand Forks' data had achieved equivalent rates of growth or decline to Fargo and North Dakota. A few variables were suggestive of long-term flood impacts however, specifically the percentage of individuals below the poverty line. Additionally, Census tract analysis revealed that tract proximity to the Red River appeared correlated with either increases or decreases with many variables. Overall, the study promoted both the case-study approach to disaster research and simultaneously advocated for considering natural catastrophes in a broader social and historical context.
2013_SOAN_04678412.pdf	2013	This study examines the sociological implications of contemporary news-style political satire on the American public. Comedic programs such as The Daily Show, The Colbert Report and The Onion have exploded in popularity in recent years, and have become a fairly influential part of the mainstream media's field of political discourse. These media texts stand next to, and in continual conversation with, the traditional newspapers and television broadcasts which they parody, revealing some of the hypocrisies and absurdities in government and media. The rise of this genre has accompanied a shift in public ideology, toward anti-authoritarian and anti-intellectual sentiments. In the past several decades, there has been a well-documented decrease in public trust in government and journalism, and the perceived relationship between individuals and institutions has been altered. The purpose of this study is to determine how political satirists define citizenship, and to examine the effect of political satire on viewers' conceptualizations of citizenship. Does satire create a cynical and disaffected populous, or does it encourage critical debate and proactive political attitudes and behaviors? The original research conducted in this study consists of content analysis of satirical videos and survey data gathered from a national population.
2013_SOAN_04678413.pdf	2013	"This descriptive and exploratory study examines the consensus process in four cohousing communities in the greater San Francisco-Oakland-Berkeley metropolitan statistical area. Out of the four sites, ten residents were interviewed and talked about the social life in cohousing, communal meetings, consensus, and community conflict and harmony. In trying to uncover the residents' understanding of these themes I recorded and transcribed each interview. These were then coded and each of the major themes were reported and discussed. The themes most relevant to the residents' understanding of consensus were selected and analyzed according to Lefebvre's sociospatial theory and Habermas' theory of communicative action. Both sociospatial theories and communicative action formed the basis for evaluating whether each cohousing community's consensus process and its structures, as well as the consensually-agreed to proposals and lifeworld build a sense of community. The results of this analysis suggest that in two sites the consensus self-management there builds a strong sense of community. In another site it builds a sense a community but only for those who actively participate in it. At the last site no sense of community was built from the consensus self-governance there. A second aim of the research was to use the concepts of Lefebvrian ""differential space"" and the Habermasian ""liberated areas"" that use communicative action to evaluate cohousing communities as radical space. Through evaluation it was determined that according to neither theories are cohousing communities radical. Instead they are simply democratic social spaces for the residents to enjoy the full benefits of a liberal property owning culture but live more socially and democratically with others."
2013_SOAN_04678414.pdf	2013	There are many studies on the effects of social support upon veterans with PTSD. There are other studies that have examined the impact of institutions such as the VA upon veterans with PTSD. And there have also been studies conducted to determine the individual social impact of PTSD upon veterans' lives. But there have been few major academic studies which combine all of these disparate elements to show the reality of what veterans with PTSD have working for them and against them in American society. My purpose of my study is to examine and evaluate the interactions that veterans with PTSD have with support networks and the VA. This project intends to combine those elements through a combination of reviewing academic literature, content analysis of news articles and critical analysis of the resulting data. The results indicate that veterans with PTSD are at risk of having their social support networks collapse for several reasons. The varying nature of PTSD is a result of myriad experiences that can cause it, especially in warfare and other traumatic situations that are unique to veterans. This varying nature also makes those veterans who suffer from PTSD more vulnerable than their civilian by making them less able to interact with social support networks, yet simultaneously more dependent upon those networks. In addition to these problems, the lack of consistency in availability of VA resources systemically privileges certain groups (such as urban veterans over their rural counterparts) over others. This reallocation of resources not only denies some veterans access to treatment, it makes the overall system less effective, which in turn has a greater negative effect upon veterans that interact with it because of the nature of PTSD. Several policy recommendations are suggested to make the system as a whole work more efficiently. The first recommendation is a centralization and systematization of VA policies and treatment. This not only would make the entire organization's treatment more uniform, it would also enable greater access to all veterans. The second recommendation concerns the integration of VA services with social support networks for veterans with PTSD. Since social support is a major factor in the development and maintenance of PTSD, integrating it with VA care would allow for a strengthening of both main sources of support for veterans with PTSD.
2013_SOAN_04678415.pdf	2013	Older adults lose their ability to drive for physical both economic reasons. When older adults do lose the ability to drive, many must rely on public transportation to allow them to keep their independence and live a high quality life. This study uses data from a survey of seniors (65 and older) as well as interview responses from representatives of transportation providers, funding agencies, and a Senior Center to examine the transportation needs of seniors. This study uses responses from interviews and surveys to construct common themes between survey and interview responses. Results from this study show that: elders seek to retain their independence through public transportation; transportation agencies lack programs for senior citizens and provide inconvenient services; and that inadequacy of coordination between seniors, transit providers, and funding agencies negatively affects the ability of seniors to access affordable and accessible transportation. The themes that come out of this study provide a basis for making recommendations on how to enhance and better maximize current resources to provide more accessible and useable transportation services to older adults.
2013_SOAN_04678417.pdf	2013	The present study is a comparative analysis of two public high schools in the Youngstown City School District. The overall objective was to understand how the societal demographics of the city have influenced the overall structure of the school systems and if this new plan is effective for the district. The use of surveys and interviews of teachers, principals, and Board members were used for the data collection of this study. The results of the study support the idea, that tracking has been implemented in the structure of the school system, which ultimately affects the overall success of these at risk students. The study did support some aspects of the hypothesis; however, it was not entirely conclusive in regards to the effectiveness of the plan
2013_SOAN_04678418.pdf	2013	The aim of this study was to talk about a quality education in a way that made it less subjective. This was accomplished by examining student responses to several key themes such as parent involvement, teacher involvement, the use of multiple assessments, the suppression of minorities, socioeconomic influence, and the influence race plays. My study found that I do not have definitive proof to say that the alternative schools I interviewed are providing a quality education overall.
2013_SOAN_04678421.pdf	2013	The following document is a sociological exploration of emotional intelligence and empowerment and its implications on women in the work place. I create a series questions for working-women based on previous literature on emotional intelligence, empowerment and leadership. Through in-depth interviews, I construct an analysis of leadership. Through questions relating to interpersonal relationships, conflict management style, and family values conclusions are drawn regarding emotional intelligence and its effectiveness in the work place. I conclude with a broader discussion of executive women, the unseen pressure of family on women in the work force, and the ways in which emotional intelligence may facilitate greater success in the work place as well as in the home.
2013_SOAN_04678422.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study is to look at the concept of Prisoner Reentry and the Reentry Court System in Wayne County. Previous research suggests that there are three major issues that prisoners face upon reentering society, housing, education, and employment. This study seeks to analyze those three primary concepts in relation to reentry and to illustrate how Reentry Court is addressing those issues. There is a strong theoretical framework that guides and directs the analysis. Both observation and interview methods were implemented. Data suggests that employment, housing, education, and transportation are the largest issues that prisoners face in their transitions back into society. These issues can lead to recidivism if not dealt with, but there is promise in how Reentry Court is structured to tackle these issues. Policy implications are integrated into the conclusion of the study to suggest future direction for Reentry Court based on what the data collected for this study suggests.
2013_SOAN_04678423.pdf	2013	Why do people steal cars?  This study examines car theft at the local level in Maryland and focuses on what motivates someone to steal a car.  Ten individuals are interviewed, including attorneys and police officers involved in car theft cases.  Three sociological theories are associated with my study:  Strain Theory, Rational Choice Theory, and Social Disorganization Theory.  Underlying premises include behavior and characteristics of offenders involved in car theft, societal or peer pressure on car thieves, and the impact of new car anti-theft technology.  The results show that depending upon the motive of car theft, thieves are either professional older males who steal targeted cars for profit or nonprofessional young males who steal cars that are convenient to them for joy riding, opportunity, or to impress their peers.  Both types of car thieves appear to have little consideration of the consequences if caught.  The findings support all three theories: most thieves rationalize their decision to steal (Rational Choice Theory); younger thieves are prone to social or peer pressure (Strain Theory); and many of them come from poorer, disadvantaged neighborhoods (Social Disorganization Theory).
2013_SOAN_04678424.pdf	2013	The intricacies of the American prison system are vast and often overlooked topics. Prisoners represent a considerable sector of the American population, and although they are serving time for their crimes, their prison experiences are worth looking at. For my senior independent research study I plan to study how food plays a role in the American prison experience. I plan to see how food affects the every day life of the prisoner, and some of the sociological implications that prisons have on inmates. I am drawing upon the previous works of social theorists Michel Foucault, Erving Goffman and Max Weber in order to further analyze and explain the role of food in the current American prison system. With an exclusively qualitative approach to this study, my results will reflect the many personal experiences of prison life, and hopefully lend a voice to the many incarcerated individuals of the United States.
2013_SOAN_04678426.pdf	2013	Societies have risen and fallen throughout history. This theoretical study seeks to understand the process by which societies succeed and fail, how societies evolve over time, and what role an individual leader can play in this evolution. Societal evolution follows a pattern that this study refers to as Punctuated Equilibrium, a term borrowed from evolutionary biology. Societies remain unchanged for long periods of time, and then rapidly change through destructive means in a short timeframe. A synthesis of Max Weber's works on Charisma and Politics as a Vocation with Michel Foucault's work on Parrhesia provides the possibility that a society can adapt to new conditions without having to dismantle and reassemble itself. While modern societies have not achieved this ideal, there may be unique opportunities for institutional reform that past societies have not been afforded.
2013_SOAN_04678427.pdf	2013	The following study investigates the role of visual art within a class based system in contemporary American society. This study explores existing literature related to the role of visual art in society, discusses the theories of Walter Benjamin, Georg Simmel, and Pierre Bourdieu to understand the role of visual art in society, and analyzes the results of a survey which was distributed to randomly selected undergraduate students currently attending The College of Wooster and The Ohio State University Main Campus. This study aims to understand the role of visual art based on socio-economic status in contemporary American society. After reviewing existing literature, discussing the theories of Benjamin, Simmel and Bourdieu, and analyzing the survey results, it became clear socio-economic status does influence access to and consumption of visual art in contemporary American society.
2013_SOAN_04678428.pdf	2013	"The theoretical aim of the following study is to critically compare the functions of social ethics in Durkhemian, post-modern and communitarian dialogical models while constructing a unique theoretical model of ""shifting solidarities"" influenced by these perspectives.  This macro theoretical model is applied to contemporary cultural globalization theories of ""globalization"" and ""scape interaction"".  Two comparative, largely qualitative case studies regarding populations of the emerging Nepalese middle-class are examined through my theoretical lens: 1) music teachers, concert organizers and musicians in Kathmandu heavy metal music scene and 2) Nepalese graduate students enrolled in an American university.  These case studies examine how members of the Nepalese middle-class combine international sources of social identity to construct ideas of locality and nationality through global dialogues with the fantastical ""Other""."
2004_SOAN_04705067.pdf	2004	This study of women in contemporary Turkey examines the effects of modernization on Turkish women's attitudes towards childbirth. I rely on existing literature to present a cross- cultural overview of childbirth beliefs and practices, and to provide the social-historical context of Turkey's transformation into a secular state. I approach my study of women's attitude toward childbirth by a qualitative method of interviewing. I interviewed seven urban women in Ankara and categorized the reoccurring central cultural themes in these interviews in my analysis. These themes are rural/urban and domestic/public contradictions, redefinition of religion and gender roles, and body power/divination. Hospitalization of births replaced female midwives with male midwives and male doctors. I examine the impacts of the transformation of childbirth from the domestic sphere, where it was a women's event and controlled by women, into the public sphere, where men control and constrain the female body. This transformation is the outcome of the application of advances in technology. To understand this transformation, I explain the social and political events that were occurring in the last thirty years, and in particular the emergence of the feminist movement in the 1980s, which opened the doors for women of Turkey, both secular and Islamists, to voice their opinions. This period is vital in understanding the seven women's responses because it was during that time that they gave birth to their children. I report their voices and study their interpretation of their childbirth experience.
2004_SOAN_04705068.pdf	2004	This study explores the activities and lifestyles of Amish teenagers during the rumspringa period, as well as their baptism decisions. The Amish participate in adult baptism; therefore, their teenagers make their own decisions about baptism. Using theories and concepts of symbolic anthropology, labeling theory, and boundary maintenance theory, this study examines this stage of life for the Amish. This thesis was carried out by conducting 13 in-depth interviews with five groups of people-New Order Amish, Old Order Amish, ex-Old Order Amish, ex-Swartzentruber, and one law enforcement official. Results showed great diversity surrounding the activities and actual participation in rumspringa by affiliations. The findings suggest that the New Order do not participate in rumspringa, where as some Old Order and Swartzentruber members still participate. Therefore, not all Amish teenagers and affiliations participate in rumspringa, which suggests this time period is changing and some affiliations are moving away from typical rumspringa behaviors and activities. Despite the diversity concerning rumspringa, [mdings suggest similar reasons for baptism among the affiliations; contributors of all affiliations cited religious feelings as the main reason for baptism. Future research is suggested, in terms of focusing on the reasons, purpose and evolution of rumspringa among different affiliations. Also, future research is recommended to focus on gender issues, as well as baptism decisions, to uncover more detail about both topics.
2004_SOAN_04705069.pdf	2004	This thesis examines the influence of peer socialization on a child's development. Chapter One reviews the literature on socialization, loneliness and family interaction. Chapter Two discusses sociological theories of socialization and interaction. Interviews were conducted among 12 boarding school students raised in the Australian Outback, aswell as a control group of 12 students raised in an urban environment. The students from the Outback received their education via radio in their homes, while the urban students received their education by attending various primary schools in Australia. The findings indicate that loneliness among the Outback students is seen as homesickness, whereas among the urban students, loneliness is a general feeling of boredom. In terms of social interaction, it was also found that the quality of friendship is of a higher value among the Outback students. As a result of the different means of education and socialization experiences, the method of learning of the samples also varies. The Outback students gained knowledge through application and experience whereas the knowledge of the urban students is a result of a formal and systematic education. This research shows how minimal peer socialization can not only impact, but benefit individuals in social isolation.
2007_SOAN_04705085.pdf	2007	This thesis explores the roles of religion in incorporating immigrants from Latin America into the U.S., specifically examining the surfacing of cultural and structural hybrids. Thesis will also address how socio-spatial structures interact with immigrant religious institutions and practices. The research focuses on three different Christian congregations in Northeast Ohio and their various modes of incorporating Latino immigrants. Additionally, the research investigates the practices and experiences of an immigrant population in one rural region that reflect the important dynamics of popular religiosity and space. To obtain the data, several religious agents and Latino immigrant persons were interviewed, and detailed participant observation was conducted in religious services, spaces, and events. These study populations are explored through the lenses of current literature and theoretical frameworks on immigration and religion. The adaptations churches make to immigrants' cultural values and material needs resonate with scholarship under the New Paradigm sociology of religion. Subsequent stratifications emerge in these institutions around ethnicity, culture, and social space. The impacts of spatial conditions on immigrants' experiences elucidate the weaknesses of this Paradigm's theoretical claims by demonstrating the hybrid fluidity between secular and religious modes of incorporation. In particular, these experiences are explored through Bourdieu' s theory of practice, which explains the importance of social capital and structuring forces of habitus in this phenomenon. Following the research analyses, Thesis posits several implications for future research specifically in the fields of transnational and rural studies.
2007_SOAN_04705086.pdf	2007	This thesis examines the socializing messages in American Girl Dolls, a popular line of products aimed at a pre-teen audience. A review of academic literature reveals the broad range of issues present in American Girl merchandise, including the topics of girlhood, history, gender, diversity, and consumerism. Contemporary critiques of neoliberalism and Erik Erikson's work on identity development provide a basis for studying the influence American Girl products have on their clientele. Ethnographic research, including interviews with 17 college students, parents, and girls, along with participant-observation at American Girl Place in New York City, allowed for the discovery of messages and memories that stay with consumers of American Girl Dolls. The interviewees eagerly described how the historical component of these dolls, the positive image of girls which is depicted in accompanying literature, and the social element connected to the ownership of an American Girl Doll were significant reasons why they treasured this merchandise. American Girl's strong emphasis on consumerism also emerged as a theme in the interviews and during participant-observation at American Girl Place. Young girls are thrilled to shop at this store specifically because they realize that everything there is targeted to them. The girls understand that since they are consumers of American Girl products, they will almost certainly leave with a new toy in a bright red bag.
2005_SOAN_04774279.pdf	2005	This study is a cross sectional survey and interview to determine the influences of body image of 83 women at The College of Wooster. The survey consists of 25 mostly Likert Scale questions and the interviews were conducted with one female from each class year. The literature shows that the major variables are parents, peers, media, and change of location from living at home to the campus environment. There is a lack of literature about the change of environment and a majority of the studies are conducted strictly on college women. Theory is broken down into 4 sections including Erikson's model of development, Gilligan's communication theory, de Beauvoir's 'Second Sex' and female competition, and Symbolic Interactionism. According to the seven hypotheses I came up with and the quantitative results from their survey responses the most influential variables were the mother or father and the media. The qualitative portion or the quotes in the discussion supports the quantitative results.
2005_SOAN_04774281.pdf	2005	"This thesis explores the relationship between birth-order, academics, and social attitudes. The literature chapter reviews research in order to learn more about the effects of birth-order on education, IQ, family relations, friendship associations, and career preferences. Following this, I present a discussion of symbolic interactionism and exchange theory. Based on the literature and theory, I developed a number of hypotheses. For example, older children were hypothesized to have more academic ability than younger children and middle children were predicted to be more social. I conducted my study by sending out an anonymous questionnaire to mostly white, middleclass parents who worked in the Cuyahoga Falls education system. My study concludes that older children are more interested in academics than their second born siblings. Overall, the oldest and third born children from all families have higher grades than second born children from all families. Going along with the social aspect of my study, third born children are reported to get along better with others than their oldest sibling as well as have more friends."
2005_SOAN_04774283.pdf	2005	My independent study explores the factors influencing the college choice process. Specifically, I looked at financial aid, sports, parental involvement, campus size, and academic reputation. I gathered and researched literature on the selection process and began to select theories. I analyzed and applied conflict theory, functionalist theory, and social reproduction theory. To collect data, I conducted a survey distributed to The College of Wooster students. I found from my research that students attend The College of Wooster based on two major factors: how much financial aid and scholarship money a student receives and the academic reputation of the school. My research also shows that parents are significantly involved in their children's educational selection process. Also, my data proves that the size of a college, the location, and the sports reputation all playa major determinant in the college choice process. My findings support many of my theories. Conflict, social reproduction, and impression management theories all support my findings.
2007_SOAN_04774288.pdf	2007	This thesis attempts to understand ethnicity in American society. The study specifically looks at the Czechoslovak ethnic group in the United States. It examines the social and structural variables and issues that impact immigrant and first generation Americans decisions to retain their ethnic identities in society. The data was obtained by interviewing family members in Slovakia as well as in America about their ethnicity, immigrant experiences, and social views. Theories by sociologists Milton Gordon, Mary Waters, and Herbert Gans were used to explain Theoretical reasons why people in this study chose to retain ethnicity in American society. While this study answered some of the questions about ethnicity in the United States there are several ethnic issues that remain which could be answered with further research. Another interesting study could look at third and fourth-generation Americans in comparison to the original immigrants ethnic identity.
2007_SOAN_04774289.pdf	2007	This study explores sexuality, objectification, and the gender roles displayed in exotic dance clubs from a qualitative approach. Field notes were accumulated from 30 hours of participant observation at two male and two female strip clubs located in Northeastern Ohio and Los Angeles, California. Twenty strip club websites (10 male club websites and 10 female club websites) were analyzed using both latent and manifest content analysis. The results revealed that there are significant differences in the way gender and sexuality are presented depending on whether dancers are male or female. Specifically, major differences relate to the aggression of dancers, the sexual fantasies of men and women, the objectification experienced by dancers, and the prevalence and acceptance of homosexuality in exotic dance clubs. The results support theories advances by Chodorow, Broverman, and Kimmel. Implications for further research on strip clubs are also discussed.
2004_SOAN_04774297.pdf	2004	"This study examines the increasing rates of obesity among American children in recent years, and the role that parents play in determining the weight of their children. Previous literature has found that the socio-economic status and eating patterns of parents are important factors in determining whether their children will be obese. In addition, studies have found that the prevalence of mothers in the workplace, poor nutrition in schools, and declining levels of physical activity all lead to obesity among children. In this study, socialization theory, social reproduction theory, and feminism are used to understand the role parents play in determining overweight or obesity among American children. Survey research is proposed to further understand the causation of child obesity. Questionnaires were administered to a random sample of parents whose children are between the ages of six and eleven. Parents were asked a number of questions including those addressing the eating habits and activity levels of themselves and their children, their level of daily control over feeding practices, whether or not the mother is working outside of the home, along with questions about their occupations and levels of education. This study is unique because it approaches the issue of child obesity from a sociological perspective. Instead of simply addressing the issues from a biological standpoint, this study examines the role of environmental and societal factors in determining child obesity."
2004_SOAN_04774299.pdf	2004	Much data has shown that non-White students are overrepresented in special education in the United States. This thesis explores the relationship between ethnicity, economic disadvantagement, and special education placement. The quantitative study examined all elementary students attending a particular northeastern Ohio school district in 2002. The data was obtained through the Educational Management Information System of the school district. In this sample, no relationship was found between ethnicity and special education for emotional disturbances, mental retardation, or specific learning disabilities. However, relationships between economic disadvantagement and special education, and ethnicity and economic disadvantagement, were present. This suggests that economic disadvantagement is an important factor in explaining the overrepresentation of non-White students in special education in certain communities. Several sociological theories help to explain the observed relationships, including Bourdieu's cultural reproduction theory and Goffman's concept of stigma. It might be useful for future research to examine additional variables that relate to special education placement, such as gender, grade level, and early childhood programming.
2005_SOAN_04774316.pdf	2005	My study exammes the concept of lawyer style and attempts to answer the question: How important are stylistic elements of a lawyer's presentation in determining a trial's verdict? To begin, I examine literature that explores the effects of factors such as race, sex, and experience on a lawyer's overall presentation in court and effect on juries. Next, I examine sociological theory that is relevant to my topic; specifically the work of symbolic interactionists including Mead, Cooley, and Goffman. To collect data, I interviewed attorneys on their experiences with trial style. Finally, my data led me to several conclusions. First, style is made up of a number of different factors, all playing important and separate roles. Second, lawyers are perfectly suited to use style, because they act in front of an audience that is particularly vulnerable to methods of impression management. Last, style does appear to play a role in the outcome of trials, although some lawyers think it is more important than do others.
2005_SOAN_04774317.pdf	2005	Stuttering is a complex speaking disorder that is not well understood and is stigmatized in society. Stigma is well documented in the sociological literature, but there is surprisingly little written about stuttering. Sociological theory helps us to explain how stutterers become stigmatized and how they cope with it. Specifically, symbolic interactionism explains the development ofthe stigmatized 'self within society. Labeling theory explains how a label such as stuttering can influence behavior. This study is interested in how individuals who stutter feel they are stigmatized and how they cope with their disorder. In order to study stuttering, I joined two support groups for stutterers and interviewed seven stutterers. From this research, four themes emerged: difficulty in school, difficulty in choosing and performing in a career, effects on social life, and effects on feelings of self-worth. Contrary to most sociological theory, I found that stutterers can overcome stigma over time. As the participants entered into adulthood, became more mature, and joined a support group, the negative impacts of the label 'stutterer' and the stigma associated with it actually decreased.
2005_SOAN_04774318.pdf	2005	"This thesis explores a symbolic interactionist's view ofthe campus subculture as well as attempting to show that those students who use marijuana are more likely to subscribe to the ""hang-loose"" lifestyle and the values of the subculture. Through the use of a survey sent through campus mail, data was collected from 110 The College of Wooster students. This data was analyzed and did show that those students who subscribe heavily to the behaviors and values ofthe ""hang-loose"" ethic are most likely to be marijuana users and are at the core of the campus subculture. Further research is suggested to help solidify these theories and to find more supportive data. Adding more students to the study and possibly including interviews this study could gain validity and become even more useful."
2005_SOAN_04774319.pdf	2005	"This thesis examines the recent popularity of gambling and the reasons that people choose to gamble. Television has now devoted at least five shows to Texas Hold'em Poker. This is an important phenomenon because gambling, which has often been seen as a deviant activity, is now a mainstream activity that takes place in homes, bars, and casinos across America. This thesis focuses on the reasons behind the popularity and how it became a legitimate activity. It will also look at the reasons that people choose to gamble and why it is such a popular activity. I draw from functionalist, conflict, and symbolic interactionists to help me understand gambling in America. Through participant observation and interviews, my research looks at college students and their involvement in gambling as well as people of all ages who participate in free poker tournaments. My research will show that the two main reasons people choose to gamble are based on the opportunity to make money and the social interactions that gambling provide."
2005_SOAN_04774320.pdf	2005	Why do people smile? This Independent Study explores previous studies on this question. It fmds that two types of motivations result in smiling. The first type of motivation is situational, wherein people smile because of different social environments which make them feel certain emotions. The second type of motivation is based on status. Status motivators include gender, social dominance, cultural differences and age. To understand why there might be variations in smiling, I explore Theory of symbolic interactionism. Symbolic interactionists believe that actions, like smiling, are performances. This Independent Study focuses on the question of whether age affects smiling. I recruited thirty women, ages 18- to 60-years, to watch a humorous video clip and videotaped their facial expressions while they watched. Participants were broken down into three age groups, 18-22, 23-42, and 43-60, and the number of smiles per participant was recorded as well as the times at which they smiled. Results showed that the 18-to 22-year-olds smiled slightly more often than the older groups. There was little difference in the number of smiles made by the different age pairs, but the differences that occurred can be explained through symbolic interactionism. In other words, the 18- to 22-year-olds smiled more frequently because they were more likely to try to impress the other person whereas the older two groups were less concerned about the other person.
2007_SOAN_04774332.pdf	2007	"This thesis explores the effectiveness of differentiated instruction on student performance based upon Howard Gardner’s theory of multiple intelligences. Currently the United States employs a system of standardized testing to assess student achievement that has had an immense impact on classroom instruction. The teacher-centered, teaching to the test that standardized testing encourages has placed severe limitations on learning. To examine the alternative approach of differentiated instruction and the benefits it might have for the classroom environment, the achievement and attitudes of forty-three fourth grade students at a local public elementary school were compared. Students were assessed using an MI inventory to determine their dominant form of the multiple intelligences. Then, students received instruction in either a differentiated or non-differentiated format. The students were pre- and post-tested on the material covered in the unit, and surveyed to collect data concerning their attitudes toward the method of teaching they experienced. The findings of the study revealed that both the post-test and survey scores of students from the differentiated lessons were higher than those of students from the non-differentiated group to a statistically significant degree. The results of the research have serious implications for the social institution of schools, demanding a closer examination of the assessment, instruction, and accountability systems currently in place and how best to teach America’s youth. 
2007_SOAN_04774334.pdf	2007	This thesis is a qualitative study of offender rehabilitation. The research explores what works in rehabilitation programs and why, and what does not work and why not. The hypothesis is based on rational choice, control, strain, social capital, and labeling theories. It is suggested that program efficacy is dependent on offenders realizing that their choices determine their situations; criminal choices result in undesirable consequences. Programs that enforce personal relationships, and provide knowledge to gaining necessities in a pro-social manner are hypothesized to be the most effective. The population is a group of individuals involved in a rehabilitation program at a probation office. The subjects are comprised of probationers who participate in the program and probation officers who manage the program. The data were collected through interviews conducted in person. The results show that this program is effective, and the conclusions support most of Theories. Future research should continue to examine what works and why and what does not work and why not.
2007_SOAN_04774338.pdf	2007	This thesis presents a study ofthe small Appalachian town of River City, Ohio, exploring the possible reasons for the choice of individuals to remain in or move away from the town in spite of its relative isolation, the adverse economic conditions, and lack of employment opportunities. Twenty..: three individuals were formally interviewed from five different categories ranging from those who were born and raised in River City and have never left, to those who live in other small towns on the outskirts of River City. From the data analyzed in 17 of the interviews chosen to represent the 23 conducted interviews, several themes emerged which point to possible reasons of why these individuals have remained in River City. Results showed that intimate relationships with kin, the values acquired from one's background, love of place, expressions of negativity toward characteristics of urban cities, depression, education, and several other factors all contributed to the rational and emotional choices the informants made in their decision to remain in River City or to move away .
2007_SOAN_04774339.pdf	2007	This thesis explores the expectations and attitudes of unmarried college students regarding their potential future weddings and marriages. The study was conducted by distributing self-administered questionnaires to a random sample of 300 students at a small, private liberal arts college in the Midwest. The questionnaires addressed students' desire to marry, their expectations for the future, their feelings about gender roles, and independent variables such as their parents' education, their sex, and their annual household income. Eighty-two questionnaires were returned, yielding a response rate of about 27 percent. Four times more females responded than males. The results showed that although the majority of students desired to marry at some point during their lives, female students had given more thought and energy to their expectations of their desired weddings than male students had. Male students tended to express more traditional gender roles than female students. Students with mothers with lower levels of education expressed more traditional gender roles and were less tolerant of non-traditional marital name change than those with mothers with higher levels of education. Students with higher annual household incomes expressed more traditional gender roles in terms of childcare and housework responsibilities than those with lower incomes. Further research is suggested, with an emphasis on the opinions of African-Americans and other persons of color, as these individuals have historically been underrepresented in research on this topic.
2007_SOAN_04774340.pdf	2007	The purpose of this research was to gain a deeper understanding of the shape of social support networks within women’s prisons and the role that they play for inmates. Particular attention was paid to the nature of relationships that develop among the incarcerated women, and factors that affect those interactions. The research was conducted through ten in-depth interviews with women currently incarcerated or recently paroled in the state of Michigan. The four most prevalent relationship types I found were friendships, sexual relationships, ‘pseudofamily’ fragments, and cliques. These relationships fulfill needs that are not provided by the facility and also serve as coping mechanisms in the prison environment. Similar to relations on the outside, networks form with an element of exchange and reciprocity, while also serving an emotionally supportive function. Future research should examine changes in levels of interpersonal trust among women within the prison system, as well as the role that changing cultural gender ideologies may have on women in the prison system.
2007_SOAN_04774341.pdf	2007	This thesis explores music tastes of college students. In particular, it focuses on how social influences drive musical tastes and how musical taste changes over time. Particular emphasis is given to the role of capitalism, self-image, social group identity, and new digital music technology with relevant theory drawn from the works of Karl Marx, symbolic interactionism, and conflict theory. To explore this question, I studied music tastes of students at The College of Wooster, a college of slightly less than 2,000 undergraduates located in the rural area of Wooster, OH. This was done by distributing 300 surveys to a random sample of students with questions pertaining to individual music tastes, sources of music discovery, music tastes in relation to self-identity, measure of importance of music tastes in the social context, and usage of music related technologies. Results from the 90 returned surveys showed that there is a distinct relationship between the functions of music socially, mass media influence, the freeing of capitalism as facilitated by new media technologies and the tastes that students formulate during their years in college.
2007_SOAN_04774342.pdf	2007	"This thesis focuses on high school athletic participation using three different sociological theories to explain participation: rational choice; conflict theory with a focus on Bourdieu's habitus; and symbolic interactionism with a focus on Goffman's impression management. Three hundred and sixty surveys were sent to a randomly selected sample of The College of Wooster students. One hundred were returned with a response rate of 27.8 percent. Four hypotheses were developed to explain youths' sports participation. I found statistical significance for youth playing the same sport as their parents as well as youth having a grasp of gender roles and impression management. Further research with a more diverse population is necessary. This study will hopefully help individuals make informed decisions about sport participation and what they expect to gain from it."
2007_SOAN_04774343.pdf	2007	"English as a Second Language (ESL) research is one of the most important areas of current educational research. This paper builds on the evolving trends of second language research towards a focus on the individual learner by researching ESL motivation through interviews. The specific research question is: Why do male Latino immigrant high schoolers learn or not learn English? I start by reviewing the literature and theory that addresses ESL motivation, specifically the traditional macrosociological approach towards second language acquisition (SLA), the role ofthe community in Latino SLA, and the microsociological perspectives that frame questions of personal motivation. I then explain the methodology used to collect my data, including a detailed overview of school environment, participant selection, and study generalizability. In the data analysis, three emerging factors of ESL motivation are examined: the role of the family, language learning as a cultural decision, and the learner's conceptualization of the language process and success and failure. Finally, I present strategies and characteristics from motivated student ESL learners and tie this to policy recommendations and suggestions for further research."
2008_SOAN_04778365.pdf	2008	This thesis was provoked by the lack of sufficient information regarding military members' perceptions of the war in Iraq. While the existing literature taps into the effects of self-selection, socialization, and the military culture on military members' formation of beliefs, few studies have focused on those beliefs during a time of war. Because of this, I administered online surveys to 61 cadets in the Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program at a large state university in the mid-Atlantic region which I will refer to as Cadet University (CU). The primary goal of my study was to compare pre-war support for the war and the president to current support for the war and president as affected by various war-time events. However, other independent variables that were thought to affect levels of support were also taken into account. Results showed that cadets' current levels of support for the war and the president are significantly lower than pre-war levels of support. Aspects of self-selection, levels of alienation, and specific war-time events each played a role in dictating current levels of support for both the war and the president. Future research should aim for longitudinal methods that can track actual fluctuations in support rather than perceived fluctuations.
2008_SOAN_04778369.pdf	2008	This research examines the history of hitchhiking in the United States during the 20th century and tries to give reason for the decline of this American pastime. This research looks specifically at the 1970s and the ties between the youth culture and the popularity of hitchhiking during that time. Through past literature, sociological theory, and 12 in-depth interviews this study examines motivation for hitchhiking, generational differences, and social change in the United States since the 1970s. This study has concluded that hitchhiking had many close ties to the youth culture of the 1970s, including a sense of community that promoted helping one's neighbors and fellow members of the counterculture. Reasons for the decline of hitchhiking are the increase of individuals owning cars, the greater accessibility to public transportation, the growing issue of safety, and the increase of everyday violence in our country. This research intended to give an inside view into the practice of hitchhiking and promote further research on a topic that has been given little attention.
2008_SOAN_04778372.pdf	2008	In the new South Africa, the formation of a post-apartheid national identity has been constructed by the government in order to unite its people into a thriving multicultural democracy. This study examines the conceptualization of identity by university students and their opinions on the national identity and aspects of social change. Both a quantitative and qualitative methodological approach was used to best capture the nuanced identity choice(s) of South African university students. The construction of the South African identity has influenced the younger generations of South Africans as found within the University of Cape Town student population in this research. Other topics explored in this study include the roles of social and ethnic identity and its intersection with the development of the South African national identity. Finally this study examines how identity is addressed with the goal of equality in a new liberal democratic state with specific attention to contemporary equity policies, such as Black Economic Empowerment and affirmative action.
2008_SOAN_04778377.pdf	2008	Forming and establishing ones identity is a complex process in which several things factor. This research uncovers and describes the sense of identity among college attending students who spent a significant part of their developmental years abroad, known as Third Culture Kids (TCKs). Using past research as a foundation, information from qualitative interview and survey data of Third Culture Kids was gathered. The theoretical perspective of Pierre Bourdieu was then used to explore and bring understanding to how Third Culture Kids identify themselves. Results showed that the majority of Third Culture Kids come from middle class backgrounds, saw several benefits to their lifestyle, desired to continue international mobility, and yet often they felt out of touch with their non Third Culture Kid peers. In fact Third Culture Kids may continue to struggle with their identities and feel as outsiders when they attempt to describe their experiences that do not fit traditional mono cultural identity constructs. Ultimately this research uncovers that due to Third Culture Kids' mobile lifestyles they tend to feel most comfortable identifying themselves with transportable elements or as Third Culture Kids rather than with any particular culture, nationality, or geographical location.
2012_SOAN_04800510.pdf	2012	The focus of my study is to understand the manner in which racial oppression, linguistic oppression, and anti-immigrant sentiment have affected the identity formation of first and second generation Latinos in the United States. More specifically, I examine Latino immigrants’ responses and coping mechanisms in regards to their treatment in United States society. These responses varied and included the loss or preservation of culture and language, the development of bicultural identities, and the concealment of ethnic identity in certain contexts. Through anthropological, sociological, historical, and immigration studies, I was able to analyze previous work on Latino immigrant experiences. The theoretical framework that structures my study discusses and explains interactions of power in U.S. society. My methodology included in-depth interviews with first and second generation Latino immigrant professionals from the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area. I found that while immigrant professionals are shielded from many discriminatory practices due to their status in the upper-middle class, their high levels of education, and their professional employment, these shields are not foolproof. In working towards a more inclusive society, I conclude that the United States must put forth greater effort to include and help Latinos and other minority groups to integrate.
1993_SOAN_04813476.pdf	1993	This thesis explores the relationship between divorce and the self-esteem of college students. In examining these two variables I developed seven other specific hypotheses concening the student's age at the time of the divorce, pre-divorce conflict between the parent(s) and child, post-divorce residence, and position within the family. The theories used were Symbolic Interactionism and Functionalism. The literature reviewed showed a void of studies done on college students. The data was gathered through the use of a questionnaire sent randomly to one-tenth of the student population at the College of Wooster. The questionnaires measured family status, number of siblings, place of residence, conflict in the parent-child relationship and self esteem. After coding the data, it was run through the SPSSX system to derive statistics for the variables. Virtually all of the data was insignificant. I attributed this to the very small response of people whose parents are divorced. Although my data was statistically insignificant, I was able to examine some possible tendencies.
1993_SOAN_04814023.pdf	1993	"This thesis explores the factors that affect the self-esteem of eight sexually abused pre-adolescent and adolescent females under the services of Wayne County Children Services. Their ages range from twelve years old to eighteen years old. Each young victim was interviewed as well as the corresponding therapist to obtain a broader view of understanding the abuse experienced. This was also done as a ""cushion"" measure in case the victim was not able to engage in discussion given the sensitivity of the subject. Results showed that despite the wide range of experiences they encountered, there were similarities that they all shared. Those were initial sense of fault and/or shame, nightmares and or flashbacks, taking the role of the ""parentified child"", issues around trust, parents with issues, and coping mechanisms. The main theme among all the cases were parents with issues and the role they played as a leading factor affecting their self esteem."
1993_SOAN_04857024.pdf	1993	This paper explores aspects of Japanese society as reflected through their comic books, referred to as manga. This study focused on the popular reading materail of young men ranging in age from junior high school to their early twenties. Roughly 400 manga written for the target population were studied. The re-ocurring themes were analized in order to draw new conclusions about Japanese thought and behavior among the studied population. Results varied on different topics but the overall results pointed towards a wide gap between the attitudes of young men and their actions. My conclusions point toward manga as expressing the beliefs of the inner, private self, rather than the public self that is usually studied .
1993_SOAN_04857025.pdf	1993	This thesis examines the cross-cultural meanings affixed to adolescent pregnancy. To greater understand the complex cycle of young motherhood, it is necessary to evaluate the forces which influence and guide adolescents in their sexual conduct and pregnancy attitudes. This analysis may help us form culturally sensitive programs designed to support a teen before, after, and during pregnancy, and subsequently work to improve her life chances. This examination was performed by conducting interviews with fourteen working class, racially diverse young pregnant women, and comparing the results with past research, literature, and theory. It was found that indeed there are culturally distinct tendencies toward viewing and adjusting to teen pregnancy, as well as varying levels of assistance and positive outlook indicated from the support networks. Correlating with past literature, it was found that while Mexican-Americans and Puerto Rican-Americans receive positive support from their families, EuroAmericans must rely on their peers and social programs for primary support. African-Americans had relatively high levels of support from all networks examined, including the family, peer group, and the father of the child. To broaden the scope of the data, other variables such as household composition, personal pregnancy attitudes, and educational support systems were also addressed.
1993_SOAN_04857026.pdf	1993	This study focuses on an aspect of police and community relations in a metropolitan area. This includes an exploration of how demographic characteristics of a community correlates with the number of community complaints made against police officers. Three Cleveland police districts were chosen on the basis of representing high, low, and expected values of complaints filed at two separate complaint agencies. A social indicators research approach was used in analyzing a set of independent demographic variables that were chosen based on findings from past research and relevant theoretical explanations. Results indicated that there were relationships between the rate of community complaints fromspecific districts and certain demographic characteristics of that district. Suggestions for future research include the use of quantitative statistical analysis as a more precise means of determining correlations between complaints and demographics, as well as further qualitative analysis probing the inter-structures of the cultures represented in each district
1993_SOAN_04857027.pdf	1993	"This study will examine the effects of parental separation and divorce on the children involved as seen through the indicators of sense of self-esteem, social interactions, and academic performance/cognitive development while controlling for the time lapsed since the divorce. The review of literature closely examines the correlation between divorce and these indicators . Following the collection of the literature, the general conclusion of this document is that parental separation and divorce negatively affect the children involved as seen through the specified indicators. To further explore the relationship of parental separation and divorce on the development of the child, several theories were applied, including a through examination of the broad Theory of Symbolic Interactionism. In addition, the sub-theories of the ""looking glass self,"" Systems Levels theory, and the Frustration and Aggression theory were also discussed. For completion of the Senior Independent Thesis, two-hundred College of Wooster students were randomly administered surveys. The Statistical Package for the Social Sciences edition Ten was applied to analyze the data. The results of the collected data show that although the patterns of self-esteem, social interaction, and academic performance/ cognitive development of children of divorce were consistently lower than those of children from intact families, the percentage of difference was not statistically significant. However, this study was not able to allow for several intervening variables: social desirability, age, and sample size."
1993_SOAN_04857028.pdf	1993	This thesis examines whether knowledge and concern about AIDS has an impact on college women's sexual behavior and choices. The goal of such research is to predict certain behavioral changes that will occur as a result of AIDS, and to explain why some college students are more likely than others to change their sexual behavior. Much research has indicated that college students have not significantly changed their sexual behavior, while other research shows that college students have taken preventive measures to avoid contracting the AIDS virus. Finally, many studies examine possible reasons why the young adult population may be resisting behavioral change. The social construction of AIDS will be examined in order to understand the social reaction to AIDS. Through in-depth interviews with twenty-six women, questions concerning metaphors and theories of AIDS will be asked to determine whether these metaphors are misleading and actually shape our attitudes and perceptions of AIDS. The principles of the Health Belief Model (Janz and Becker, 19 8 4) will also be used to predict the likelihood of adopting behavior to avoid the transmission of the AIDS virus. Future research is recommended among college students in order to determine the actual reasons why some students are reluctant to change their behavior in response to AIDS in an effort to create effective education programs necessary to slow the spread of the AIDS virus .
1993_SOAN_04857029.pdf	1993	This study examines American portrayals of Russian privatization in the post Cold-War era and what these portrayals reveal about American cultural preoccupations. The theoretical framework for this study rests on how ethnic identity is maintained through symbols, images, and stereotypes. Using content analysis, sixteen randomly picked articles from two popular American newspapers and two popular American magazines are analyzed for underlying themes relating to American cultural values and beliefs. The results are compared with media images during the Cold War in order to show how imageshave changed from the political, economic, and social context in which the United States and Russia have evolved. Finally, this study discusses the impact that these current images may have on the future of the Russian nation.
1993_SOAN_04857032.pdf	1993	There has been an increasing amount of literature recently published by writers within Anthropology which is self-critical of the discipline. In addition, in the study of Native American groups there has been a movement towards interdisciplinary work and away from purely ethnographic work. This thesis reviews an element of this self-critical literature. This element calls for increased attention to the crafting of ethnographic texts. Included in this are such concepts as dialogic, self-reflexive, and post-modern presentation. In addition, the thesis attempts to draw connections between this concern for text and the interdisciplinary movement in the study of Native Americans. Finally, two examples of ethnographic experimentation are provided which attempt to use concepts drawn from the recent concern for textuality. These examples utilize ethnographicinterviews with Blackfeet tribal members. The topics of the interviews revolve around current reservation conditions and current efforts to maintain traditional culture. The emphasis of the thesis is on the presentation of this data, however, not on the data itself.
1993_SOAN_04857033.pdf	1993	"In this paper I will discuss a study I have done on the effects of tourism on the local inhabitants of host communities. I introduce this study with a discussion of previous research that is related to the topic under study, the effects of tourism. There are four aspects of the host community, on which, I am focusing: (1) personal relations between the people in the host community and the tourists, (2) the economy of the host town, (3) crimes in the host town, (4) and the environment of the area in which the tourist industry has developed and grown. I am looking at the way these four aspects and the native inhabitants of the host community are influenced by the growth of a tourist industry. To better understand this phenomenon I use Redfield's concept of the ideal ""folk society"", aspects of conflict theory, and the function and dysfunction concepts of Merton's theory to show how the host community is influenced by tourism. I will study and observe a community that has been affected by the tourist industry by doing interviews and participant observation."
1993_SOAN_04857035.pdf	1993	"This thesis explores the nuances of Marvin E. Wolfgang's Subculture of Violence Thesis. It serves as a critique to several of the fundamental propositions suggested by Wolfgang in his thesis, and suggests that what Wolfgang calls a subculture of violence, is not a subculture at all, but merely a group that has been labeled. In disclosing the weaknesses of Wolfgang's argument, it is suggested that one of the major flaws in his entire approach to defining a subculture of violence is that he makes no attempt to discover the reasons certain populations, he calls subcultures, exhibit high rates of criminal homicide and interpersonal violence. The question of causality of the so called ""subculture of violence"" is explored through the use of multiple regression. The particular variables used were selected from the NORC data code book on the basis of their believed ability to disclose which arguments better explained the ""subculture of violence"", cultural or structural. Results show that the subculture of violence, as Wolfgang and his supporters suggest, does not exist."
1993_SOAN_04857037.pdf	1993	This thesis explores the popular concept of how the depiction of sex and violence in the mass media affect aggressive and erotic behaviors in young viewers in terms of increasing the likelihood that such detrimental behaviors will be expressed when subjected to such content. The study focuses mainly upon mediated effects upon college students with the use of highly sexual and violent music videos. Basic concepts of symbolic interactionism, learning theory, and social feminist theory were utilized to discuss the use and influence of the media on the youth and to provide insight into the findings of the study itself. After being given a self-constructed questionnaire which included various items to measure subjects' level of aggressive and erotic behavior as well as their feminist attitudes, a total of 100 college students were separated into either experiment or control group and shown a sequence of four music videos. Only for the experiment group were subjects shown videos with sexual and violent content. Subjects were then given the same questionnaire to see if any change in their behaviors was found after being subjected to the video stimuli. The results found no significant change in behavioral responses for either aggression or eroticism before and after the videos. However, differences in scores for  males and females with regards to erotic behavior suggested a significant relationship between sex and mediated effect in terms of erotic content. Females also found the videos to be less appealing and were more likely to be unaffected by their negative content as opposed to their male counterparts. In suggestion of future research, a long term study should be executed to properly analyze the extent of media influence in future social interactions. A sample of college students at a state school or of younger subjects is also suggested in order to obtain more conclusive result.
1993_SOAN_04857038.pdf	1993	This thesis explores parental divorce and its effects on attitudes and behaviors by specifically testing the variables of attitudes toward marriage, levels of life satisfaction, substance abuse, promiscuous sexual activity, levels of educational attainment, and age at marriage. Control variables for father's degree, current family income, race , age, and sex were used to test for spuriousness. The relationship between parental marital status and the above variables were examined within the framework of the symbolic interactionism theory, problem-behavior theory, conflict theory, and resource theory. The sample used for the study was taketi from the National Opinion Research Center's (NORC) General Social Survey for the years 1988, 1989, and 1990. The respondents surveyed were selected to represent the noninstitutionalized English-speaking population age 18 and older within the continental United States. The sample size for each year are as follows: 1988--1,481 respondents, 1989--1,537 respondents, and 1990--1 ,372 respondents. The Crosstabulation technique was used to analyze the data. The Chi-square measurement was used to test for the statistical significance of the relationships between variables. This researcher found that under specified conditions, there is a statistically significant relationship between parental marital status and attitudes toward marriage, levels of life satisfaction, levels of educational attainment, and age at marriage. No relationship was found to exist between parental marital status and substance abuse or promiscuous sexual activity. Future research is suggested, focussing on the same independent and dependent vairiables, with possible controls for mother's degree and siblings in addition to those used in this study. The same sampling and analysis techniques are recommended.
1993_SOAN_04857039.pdf	1993	"This thesis explores several relationships between characteristics of college students and alcohol consumption. Quantity of alcohol, views on typical male and female sex-role behavior regarding alcohol, peer pressure, negative consequences resulting from alcohol consumption, drinking for social reasons, and ""binge"" drinking in relation to gender, age race and greek membership were examined. The data were gathered by distributing questionnaires to 200 students on The College of Wooster campus. A 50 percent return rate was received. Results show that gender, age, race and greek membership were predictors of alcohol consumption. In addition, the results indicated that gender, age, race and greek membership stereotype typical sex-role behavior regarding alcohol. Because the results indicated that some college students are more at risk for alcohol related problems than others, future research is suggested focusing on ways to prevent alcohol abuse in college."
1993_SOAN_04857040.pdf	1993	This Independent Study explores the topic of eating disorders in two college populations. It investigates self-image and feminist attitudes, pressures in college to fit in and demographics, all which, in tum, influence the reasons why students, especially women, develop and have a large number of eating disorders. Four dependent variables; need to look good to the opposite sex, need to lose weight, prevalence of an eating problem and the disorders (anorexia, bulimia, compulsively overeating) were tested against six independent variables (sex, income, feminist attitudes, pressure from family to lose weight, school and greek membership) to make conclusions about the prevalence of eating problems and disorders in college and why they occur. This was done by distributing questionnaires which measured self-image, eating problems,  emographics and other control variables, to 216 students of College of Wooster and Wayne College. Results showed that the relationship between women, income, school, greek membership and eating problems or disorders were very high. Future research is suggested, focusing on a bigger sample surveyed with a different questionnaire based on eating behavior. More emphasis might also be placed on women and the pressures they feel that they face to keep their weight down.
1993_SOAN_04857041.pdf	1993	"This study seeks to examine the film version of Out of Africa as characteristic of many contemporary cultural impulses that together make up what is called ""postmodernism"". The term ""postmodernism"" is often used to describe a certain phase of Western culture and defines itself through its predecessor, modernism. Postmodernism is also a form of social theory that is directly related to this proposed cultural shift. The first three chapters give descriptive features of Ppostmodernism as well as discuss the different components of postmodernism as well as discuss the different components of postmodernism and include the following: the postmodern critique of scientific discourse, the role of the image in present culture, and the subsequent problem with otherness is the current Western symbolic order. Following this will be a discussion of methodology as postmodernism as a theoretical orientation rejects much traditional methods of sociology. The methedology draws heavily on current film theory and seeks overall to be post-positivist, critical and interpretive. A summary of the narrative of the film and the reaction of popular film critics, furthermore, is given. The analysis of the film follows and generally deals with the over-arching theme of loss and nostalgia. This nostalgia, the question of neocolonialism, aesthetic tastes, self-reflexivity are all critiqued in terms of this nostalgia and the main object of nostalgia, the cultural other."
1993_SOAN_04857042.pdf	1993	This thesis focuses on the problem of gender inequality in the work force. In this thesis the independent variables sex, age, marital status, if children are present, and finally the age of the children are used to see if they have any effect on the level of authority that an employee has. This was done by distributing questionnaires in two different American companies to 50 men and 50 women. Results showed that there is inequality between men and women but not between women and other types of women. Future research is suggested, focusing on a larger sample and measuring for different variables. More emphasis might also be placed on how long a person has been employed with the company and if they have attained more authority or not.
1993_SOAN_04857045.pdf	1993	"This thesis explores the ways in which alternative day care-givers reinforce and perpetuate cultural and societal stereotypical gender roles by choosing and reading picture books to children. Three day care-givers reading to groups of five- and six-year-old children at The Wee Care Center, Perky's World of Children, and The College of Wooster Nursery School were analyzed using the methodological approach of ethnography. A content analysis of the specific picture books read at each facility determines the visibility of gender constructs found in children's literature, and, interactions between care-givers and children during story time show how these stereotypes are perpetuated. In-depth interviews with each care-giver reveal their beliefs and attitudes towards gender in order to provide a basis for understanding how they interpret information in books during story time. The analysis of data reveals that care-givers perpetuate gender stereotypes by substituting male pronouns for ambiguo""PS characters, by reinforcing societal expectations for males and females, and by accepting existing gender constructs. Future research is suggested so that more can be known about how care-givers influence and reinforce stereotypical gender roles."
1993_SOAN_04857046.pdf	1993	This thesis examines the social reality of Western museums in Bali, Indonesia in order to understand the larger relationship between Western institutions and indigenous cultures in the postcolonial world. Using qualitative data gathered during four months of fieldwork in 1991, this study investigates the Balinese perceptions of museums and the impact of these institutions on a culture that does not adhere to nor adopt Western definitions of time and material. The study draws on recent theories within the field of museum studies which view museums as instruments of Western domination and which emphasize the political roles museums play as creators of culture, certifiers of national identity, and promoters of tourism. The study reveals, however, that although museums in Bali operate under Western definitions that challenge Balinese tradition, the Balinese have molded museums to fit their cultural reality.
1993_SOAN_04857047.pdf	1993	Mount Vernon, the former home of George Washington, is today a beautifully restored and maintained eighteenth century example of a planter's home. The Mount Vernon Ladies' Association of the Union is the beneficiary of the plantation. In recreating daily life during the era of George Washington, an archaeology department was set up in 1989. Two trash middens, one belonging to the House for Families, a slave quarter which housed about sixty slaves who worked in and immediately around the Mansion another trash midden belonging to the Mansion located right outside the kitchen where trash from the house and the kitchen was thrown are the focus of this study. Both middens have been completely excavated. The House for Families midden was completed in 1990 and the report has been written up. The Mansion midden was recently completed this summer and, therefore, only some of the results have been written up and analyzed. I have the information from both sites at my disposal. What I am attempting to do in this Independent Study Thesis is draw a connection between the ceramic sherds and vessels recovered from each of the middens. I propose, using a theory put forth by John Otto, that the Washington family passed on to the slaves ceramic vessels that they wanted to discard. This theory was tested by comparing ceramic categories, ceramic types, and vessel shapes. The results show that the Washington family probably did pass on ceramics to the slaves and that the slaves may have selected certain types of vessels to fit their needs. The study's scope is narrow but the implications of the results are many and provide many avenues for further research
1993_SOAN_04857048.pdf	1993	This study exmaines the continuities and changes in images and roles of women in popular magazines from the early 1900s to the 1980s. I also look at the theories that attempt to explain the inequalities between men and women in relation to these images and roles. One of the many theoretical disciplines which has studied the changes between the roles, how they are defined, and who determines them is feminism, which blames male-domination for the subordination of women. Feminism also studies existing sociological theories like childhood socialization and structural coercion to attempt to determine the causes for women's subordination in Western society. Childhood socialization theory looks at the socialization processes to understand why women occupy the roles that they do; structural coercion studies the institutions of society that create the division between the public and private spheres. The data was collected through a content analysis of Good Housekeeping, Vogue, and Ms. magazines. It was concluded that women's magazines indicate and discuss what popular culture views as the role of women in society, and what the various elements of her femininity should be at a given time. The idea of femininity has changed throughout the twentieth century, from juding a woman's femininity on her mothering and wifely abilities, to a more overall evaluation of a happy, self-fulfilled woman.
1994_SOAN_04857049.pdf	1994	This thesis investigates how the family and the media function in the socialization process. More specifically, how these agents of socialization interact to affect how a female forms her gender-role values. The sample consisted of both college and non-college females to determine how education would influence one's acceptance or rejection of the gender-role values that are transmitted by both the family and the media. 18 women were interviewed (10 college, 8 non-college). The questions of this study were designed to establish the extent to which the family and the media had influenced a female's gender-role values. These questions focused specifically on how gender-roles were defined in one's family, family relationships, interaction with media, and one's opinions on the media. Results revealed that there were a number of inconsistencies in the data. While there were a number of additional findings, this study was inconclusive. If the significance of this relationship is to be established, future research must employ a more effective research instrument, such as a longitudinal study which observes females from childhood to young adulthood .
1994_SOAN_04857050.pdf	1994	This thesis explores college student dating behavior correlating that behavior with variables such as gender, length of dating relationship, sex role orientation, and similar backgrounds and interests (socioeconomic status, major, Greek involvement) suggesting that each of these variables are predictive of how a student behaves within a relationship and with whom they will date. Theories of gender and social class are used to interpret how these variables affect dating behavior. The variables were studied by developing a questionnaire that was administered to 93 students at The College of Wooster. The fmdings suggest several things. Gender differences exist in dating behavior with women more likely to disclose their feelings to their partners than men and more likely than men to have an androgynous sex role orientation. Significant gender differences do not exist on measures of romanticism. Androgynous individuals are not more likely to disclose their feelings than masculine and feminine persons. Of the variables within similar interests and backgrounds, only Greek involvement is determined to play a role in dating behavior. Length of relationship is not found to have any significance in dating behaviors. Daters and non-daters are also compared woth no significant differences found in the behaviors of each group. Future research is suggested, focusing on a more in depth test of the theories used, particularly theories of gender. A larger sample is suggested in order to categorize couples by length of relationship to better test the effects of relationship stage on the dating behaviors.
1994_SOAN_04857051.pdf	1994	This thesis explores the changes in the Smithsonian Institution between 1893 and 1993 and how the museum at each time reflects its social environment, through the Smithsonian's self- defined purpose, exhibits, and perceptions of visitors. This was done through archival research, which provided insight into the world of 1893 through museum publications and correspondences, and through interviews with four members of the National Museum of Natural History, which provided a contemporary comparison. The data indicates that the museum is influenced and affected by the social environment in which it is found. A suggestion for future research is a narrower approach, to study more closely and specifically the considerations and influences involved in exhibit renovation.
1994_SOAN_04857052.pdf	1994	This thesis explores college students' attitudes toward serial killers based on the media's portrayal of serial killers. Different images of serial killers were gathered from a content analysis of popular media, criminal justice journals and feminist literature. Questionnaires were distributed to 51 male and 55 female college students at the College of Wooster in the Winter of 1994. Preliminary questions on the questionnaire tapped at key independent variables: sex, tabloid television viewing patterns, hours of television viewing a week, population density of subject's residential community, and whether or not the subject has ever been a victim of a crime. The second section of the questionnaire was recorded with a 5-point Likert-scale measuring subjects' attitudes toward the dependent variable, images of serial killers. Results showed that the predicted relationships between the independent and dependent variables were often reversed and that the intrinsic-extrinsic concepts were not useful in determining attitudes toward serial killers. This may be due to the extensive media effects and difficulty in determining its effect. Future research is suggested, focusing on the effect media has on shaping individuals attitudes. More emphasis might be placed on creating a more reliable study with a control group and different research design.
1994_SOAN_04857053.pdf	1994	This thesis explores the differences in home environment and how they effect attitudes toward education according to social class. (Theory) This was done by interviewing 18 families whose children currently attend the third grade in two public schools in the township of Wooster, Ohio. The questions gave the parents an opportunity to discuss their attitudes towards reading and homework, their approaches to motivation and discipline, and their participation and satisfaction with their child's educational experience and the public school system. The findings revealed a relationship between income and attitudes towards education. The value placed on certain aspects of education varied according to socioeconomic status. The conclusion reached that income does effect attitudes towards education could be expanded by future researchers investigating a similar topic. A recommendation that might expand the understandings of the effects of income on attitudes towards education is to have a larger pool of participants and to place more emphasis on their cultural background.
1994_SOAN_04857054.pdf	1994	This thesis examines the effects of athletic participation on grade point averages and self-esteem levels of high school students . This study uses the structural functionalist and the symbolic interactionist perspectives to • analyze these relationships. A questionnaire was distributed to students at Wooster High School, located in Wooster, Ohio. The questionnaire was designed to test three hypotheses: 1.) Do athletes achieve higher academic marks, in general, than non-athletes? 2.) Do athletes in season earn better marks than when they are not in season? 3.) Do athletes have higher levels selfeseteem than non-athletes? The results of this study showed that there were statistically significant differences in grade point averages between athletes and non-athletes. The athletes tended to have higher academic marks. There was no evidence to support the hypothesis that athletes earn better academic marks inseason than they do when they are out-of-season. Finally, it was found that athletes had a higher level of self-esteem than their non-athletic counterparts, but not to a statistically significant level. For future research, comparisons between schools that differ on factors such as curriculum, student/teacher ratios, and degree of participation may be beneficial.
1994_SOAN_04857056.pdf	1994	Most research on gender differences in communication styles focuses on verbal communication. This thesis explores gender differences in nonverbal communication. It analyzes men's and women's (1) upper limb movements, (2) lower limb movements, (3) head movements and (4) eye contact through videotape. The sample size consisted of eight men and women in groups of four (two males and two females). The groups were given specific topics to discuss. One topic was a stereotypical male issue (football), whereas the other topic was a stereotypical female issue (a weekly television melodrama). Each group was recorded by video for a total of ten minutes. The videotape procedure allowed for the subtle movements to be captured on tape and later analyzed. In a succeeding interview, participants viewed themselves on tape and made interpretations regarding both their own and others' nonverbal actions. The three research questions were to find out (1) if gender differences exist within certain nonverbal behaviors, (2) if the degree of familiarity of the conversation topic influenced these gender differences, and (3) if participants were aware of their own nonverbal behavior. Results showed gender differences in nonverbal behaviors, regardless of the conversation topic. Moreover, the individuals performing each of the movements were not always aware of their own actions or meanings behind the behaviors.
1994_SOAN_04857058.pdf	1994	This thesis explores the cultural expectations that underlie, shape and inform interactions between a professor and his students in an American college classroom. Drawing primarily on the theories of ritual proposed by Arnold Van Gennep and Victor Turner, I view the classroom in modem educational institutions as a ritual setting. The two key questions which I answer in this paper are: (1) What are the rituals that compose classroom interaction; and (2) How do these rituals serve as vehicles for cultural transmission in American society? This study is based on interviews with students and a professor, as well as three months of participant observation in a science class in a small, midwestern liberal arts college. During this study, I observed classroom rituals, such as hand-raising, orientation day and testing, which function to transmit and reinforce a number of cultural values. I found that the cultural expectations students and teachers possess reflect underlying assumptions about equality, creativity, competition, and status, differences. People from around the world come to the United States to attend its quality institutions of higher learning. The implication for my study is that American liberal-arts colleges, although they are some of the best institutions of higher learning in the world reinforce values which will be obsolete or problematic in the approaching decades. Presently, the classroom model enforces isolation and individuality. In an ever shrinking global community, a classroom model which stresses collaborative problem solving and effective communication seems much more feasible.
1994_SOAN_04857059.pdf	1994	The purpose of this thesis is to explore shelters for battered women, from the staffs point of view. Because of the lack of literature on shelters and the women and men who work in them felt it was an important aspect to cover. In order to get a perspective on the women that use the shelter and how they got to that point, I included a brief account of a woman who had been battered and possible explanations for why these women stay involved in these relationships. When reviewing the literature on shelters I found two predominant models. I compared these models to a shelter in Wooster, Ohio. In order to conduct the study I interviewed the Staff at the shelter in Wooster called Every Women's House, My finding showed that Every Women's House is a combination of both shelter models developed in the seventies and even has some of its own unique aspects to it. For future research suggest, exploring what this shelter might do to extent the stay for the women.
1994_SOAN_04857060.pdf	1994	"This thesis explores images of power and powerlessness. Through an inquiry of social rhetoric, through literature and tape-recorded interviews with youths, I shall consider issues of racial dominance and its portrayal in popular cultural trends. Race is one of the most emotional and politically charged subjects in America. What race represents goes deeper than material aspects of pigmentation; but to the core of identity and the fear and pain of cultural displacement. Whether in blatant rebellion or subtle transactions, the negotiation of racial images, boundaries, and hierarchies have been a constant in America. I shall explore the concepts of ""Blackness"" and cultural authenticity versus stereotypic emulation."
1994_SOAN_04857061.pdf	1994	"This study investigates the cultural basis for attitudes toward birth control in Japan. The literature is reviewed to understand: (1) symbolic and medical anthropology, since contraceptive practices come within the realm of the medical system, and the medical system of a culture may symbolically reflect the society of which it is a part, (2) the work of other anthropologists who have described concepts of ""personhood"" in Japanese society, as well as how Japanese formulations of ""selfhood"" compare with American conceptions, and (3) the history of abortion and birth control in Japan. From this review of the literature, I speculate upon the possible ways in which this ""Japanses"" view of the self, whereby the self is perceived as being constituded through interaction with others, rather than as acting relatively independently, could underlie attitudes toward birth control in Japan. These hypothesis are explored throigh interviews and questionaries given to Japanese exchange students and American college students. The results of the study suggest that the Japanese conceptions of self postulated by other anthropologists are reflected in Japanese attitudes towards birth control."
1994_SOAN_04857062.pdf	1994	"This thesis explores ideas of family, La Leche League and gender domains by investigating ideas of family, beastfeeding and La Leche League. La Leche League is a breastfeeding support group in Orville, Ohio. This study is divided into four parts. The literature section reviews theories about family and breastfeeding. The methedology indicates the qualitative research design employed to collect data. The data suggests the information received from the attendance of four meetings and the data collected from surveys of the participants and their ""significant others"". The analysis suggests that family for this population may be viewed in terms of the dependence/independence theory. LLL may provide what extended families provided previously for mothers. Lastly, gender domains are reflected by association of nature and the domestication spheres with women."
1994_SOAN_04857064.pdf	1994	Inclusion of handicapped children into regular classrooms is a growing and controversial topic in the field of education. Federal and state legislation addressing this issue first appeared in 197 5 with the Education for All Handicapped Children Act. Most research to date on inclusion has focused on issues surrounding sociological theories, such as symbolic interactionism and stigma. This study, however, utilized organizational theories of education in order to examine the process of implementation. This approach addresses issues at the district level which are of specific concern to classroom teachers. I used qualitative methodology for this study, observing and conducting interviews in a specific school setting. My methodology also included document analysis. My findings indicated the occurrence ofloose coupling throughout the implementation process. This study will argue that although actors at all levels of the system are aware of the sociological theories behind inclusion, the process of implementation causes change in the original policy, and curriculum and classroom activity are loosely coupled to legislation.
1994_SOAN_04857066.pdf	1994	The pupose of this study is to suggest characteristics which are significant predictors of individuals attitudes toward the teaching of sex education in primary and secondary schools. As the nation faces escalating teen pregnancy, abortion and venereal disease rates, the topic of sex education has become a highly debated issue. Furthermore, the threat AIDS poses to the adolescent community has stimulated new arguments for the inclusion of comprehensive sex education programs in both primary and secondary schools. Numerous statistics indicate that the majority of Americans support sex education, however this support has not resulted in nationwide sex education programs in the public schools. Despite the overwhelming support, comprehensive sex education programs are not being implemented This is primarily due to very vocal opponents who have consistently raised enough question and scrutiny about sex education programs to keep the courses out of primary and secondary schools. This research aims to understand what characteristics are common among proponents and opponents of sex education. The data were obtained from the National Opinion Research Center's (NORC) General Social Survey, from the years 1988 through 1991. The variables tested were selected from the NORC code book, and were chosen on the basis of their relevance to the presented literature and theory. A multiple regression technique was used to test for the effects of the chosen independent variables on attitude toward sex education in public schools. Results indicate that characteristics associated with traditionalism/ conservatism versus nontraditionalism/liberalism are the strongest predictors of attitudes toward sex education.
1994_SOAN_04857067.pdf	1994	"The effects of physical attractiveness have been thoroughly examined by social researchers; their overall conclusion is that the perceptions and evaluations others have of physically attractive individuals are more positive than those of physically unattractive individuals. However, researchers have produced evidence which suggest that the perceptions others have of physically attractive males may be different from those of attractive females . Also, prior research on the effects of physical attractiveness illustrates that under certain conditions the generality of the ""what is beautiful is good"" attractiveness stereotype may lessen. Therefore, the present study has tested the conditions under which the ""what is beautiful is good"" stereotype is supported and unsupported by the perceptions and evaluations of observers. Questionnaires, which measured respondents' attitudes toward gender roles and perceptions of attractive and unattractive persons of the opposite-sex, were distributed to 100 students from the College of Wooster and the Ohio Agriculture & Technical Institute. Primary results showed that attractive individuals were perceived and evaluated more positively by respondents than unattractive individuals. Gender role attitudes were found to influence the perceptions of female respondents, but not male respondents. Future research concerning the relationship between gender and attractiveness stereotyping is recommended. Also, further study should be conducted to ascertain to what extent race influences judgments and perceptions of physically attractive and unattractive individuals."
1996_SOAN_04857089.pdf	1996	This thesis explores how an anthropologist can study hospital culture and discusses the relationship between administrators and physicians and how their relationship reflects hospital culture. The Literature Review Chapter explains what previous researchers have discovered about these relationships as well as offers suggestions on how to improve the relationship between the two groups. The Theory Chapter reviews the McDonaldization theory, Organizational Culture Theory, and what anthropologists can do to help the world of business. In Johnson City ,Tennessee at Johnson City Medical Center Hospital (JCMC) the interview method was used to discover physicians and administrators thoughts on the relationship between the two groups as well as their thoughts on the future of the health care industry. Future research is suggested to study the relationship of physicians to the Board of Trustees and how that affects the relationship between physicians and administrators. Overall, this study suggests that the relationship between physicians and administrators is on the road to unity, but physicians and administrators have many obstacles to overcome before they can unite for the same cause, which is providing the best health care to the community .
1999_SOAN_04857103.pdf	1999	Wrestling has seen a recent surge in popularity. It is important to examine the racial, ethnic, and gender stereotypes used by professional wrestling to appeal to the audience. Most scholars claim that the professional wrestling audience is made up of members of the working class, and theories on the working class contend that this group participates in distinct cultural practices in reaction to the economic and social constraints that they face. I argue that watching professional wrestling was one such cultural practice. I explored this argument by distributing surveys to a wrestling audience at a live match, where I participated as a member of the audience and made observations about the fans, the matches, and the production techniques that were used. I also conducted a content analysis of twenty hours of wrestling footage. I found that fans of professional wrestling are primarily lower class, white men, and given their particular social situation as oppressed people living in a complex world, the images of professional wrestling have a particular appeal to them. The results of the content analysis showed that these images dealt mainly with the themes of class conflict, gender and sexuality, and ethnicity. Two other lesser themes, mental instability and fantasy also emerged.
1997_SOAN_04936399.pdf	1997	This thesis addresses several questions in relation to the implementation and interpretation of the federal policy for educating the learning disabled, The Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA). The central research question is how federal legislation comes down to the district and schools and how it is reflected in the classroom through different mainstreaming/inclusion programs. These issues were investigated through a case study of the implementation of federal regulations for learning disabled students in Cleveland School District. Data was collected through interviews with the district supervisor for learning disabilities as well as principals, teachers and students in two schools within learning disabled programs. Classroom observations were used to see how the policy was reflected in the classroom. Findings showed that there are several discrepancies in the implementation of the law and that a lack of district and state guidance on how to implement policy allows for a variety of different structures to evolve at the school level. Lack of support for the teachers also has an impact on the effectiveness of implementation and the academic success that many LD students can experience in the regular classroom. Suggestions for future research includes carrying out a study on a much larger scale to see how abundant these situations are and what factors affect implementation across districts and states. More significance can also be placed on what needs exists at the school level for successful implementation and how these can be incorporated into policy initiatives.
1997_SOAN_04936400.pdf	1997	This thesis examines the animal rights movement as a social movement. A major goal of this study involves finding out what characteristics of a social movement, particularly the animal rights movement, need to be present in order for the movement to be successful. Data was obtained by conducting questionnaires with the members of Animal Rights Hawaii (ARH) in Honolulu, Hawaii and Environmental Concerns of Students (ECOS) at the College of Wooster, in Ohio. Data was also obtained by interviewing the co-facilitator of ECOS. The model was developed through reviewing literature on social movements and the animal rights movement to explain how any successful social movements should work. Success of a movement is determined by the reaction of the established authority, and the reaction of the public. The model indicated that in order for a social movement, particularly the animal rights movement, to be successful, it is important that the movement participates in low-risk activities, recruiting members, spreading awareness to the public, and bringing about a change against the established authority. Data collected from the two methods indicated that ARH is successful as a social movement whereas ECOS's animal rights group is not because the former group was involved in these essential activities whereas the latter group was not. Further research on this subject may involve examining the animal rights movement as a new social movement.
1997_SOAN_04936401.pdf	1997	This thesis explores the cultural meaning of soap operas in American society. The central research questions are threefold: has the quantity and quality of sexually explicit content on soap operas has changed over the past sixteen years; are college viewers passive or do they actively engage in the material presented on soap operas; and how do male and female college student viewers render moral judgments about soap operas' portrayals of relationships. Content analysis was employed to determine whether the permissibility of sexual content on soap operas has increased since the early 1980's and participant observation was conducted to determine soap opera audiences' viewing rituals. Interviews with 10 college students were used to access the ways in which viewers construct meaning in soap opera storylines. Results show that the quantity of sexually explicit content on soap operas has risen since 1981 and audience members actively engage themeslves in soap opera content. The latter finding complicates both the hypodermic model of media effects and the stereotype of soap fans as being vulnerable to soap operas' messages. The study also reveals that male and female viewers do not respond in significantly different way to portrayals of relationships on soap operas. One possible explanation for this is that differences between male and female approaches to relationships become apparent at the behavioral level rather than the cognitive level.
1997_SOAN_04936402.pdf	1997	This thesis explores the impact of district level influences on student achievement in Ohio's public schools. A sample of 103 of Ohio's 611 public school districts was taken to determine any correlation between demographic and socioeconomic influences on the improvement of student achievement. Such variables as family income, property value, teacher salary, minority percentage, percentage of students receiving aid to dependent children, teachers educational degrees, teacher experience, and school drop-out rates were measured against combined scores from the state-wide proficiency exam. The data was geathered from the State of Ohio Department of Education through the use of the internet. Secondary statistics were used and recoded for the purpose of this study. Results show that the correlation between district level economic factors have a significant impact on higher achievement scores.
1997_SOAN_04936403.pdf	1997	This thesis explores the roles of women in Disney movies. In order to complete the study a review of current literature and theories was first completed followed by the actual study. The method used for this study is content analysis. The Disney animated movies were split into three time periods roughly twenty years apiece. Then all of the women in each of the movies was put into categories based on her character and behavioral traits as well as how often she was pictured in the movie. The results showed that the women generally fit into three major categories, and these categories are emphasised in almost all of the movies. Future research is suggested involving a more in depth study of not only the women's appearances but also their dialogue.
1997_SOAN_04936404.pdf	1997	The purpose of this study is to explore feelings of alienation and satisfaction in the modern work force, correlating those feelings with social class, gender, and race. This study suggests that the lower class, Blacks, and women experience higher rates of alienation and dissatisfaction in the job setting. This study also focused on the changing structure of society causing not only the lower class but also the middle class to become increasingly alienated in the work force. I tested these hypotheses by using General Social Survey data from the year 1994. Included in the independent variables were occupation, race, sex, income, prestige, and degree. Both an alienation and a satisfaction scale were constructed out of a comilation of variables and were used as the dependent variables. Results of the cross tabulations showed that the relationships between alienation and social class, race, and gender were all highly significant, confirming the stated hypotheses. Findings from a multiple regression test revealed that race and occupational prestige were the best predictors of alienation. Although satisfaction was used in many previous studies as the dependent variable, the independent variables indicated no significant relationships when cross tabulated with satisfaction. The satisfaction variable was found to be an unreliable scale. Future research is suggested, focusing on a greater variety of independent variables such as structural relationships, pace of the job at hand, and worker's involvement in decision-making process. I think these added variables would give the research high validity and tap more feelings of alienation in the work force.
1997_SOAN_04936405.pdf	1997	In this paper I will discuss alcoholism as a culturally contructed phenomena. I will explore alcoholism in a cross-cultural perspective to demonstrate the variance that exists in alcohol customs and beliefs. I will discuss how members of an Al-Anon group make sense of the various etiological theories that the academic world offers to explain alcholism. For the purpose of my study, I used the Al-Anon program to exemplify how alcoholism is symbolic of underlying cultural assumptions.
1997_SOAN_04936406.pdf	1997	This study examines how the ideological variables of religiosity, religious and political affiliation, and afterlife beliefs along with the demographic variables of parental education, sex, income, race, and region can be used to predict attitudes toward active and passive euthanasia. These variables and their influence on euthanasia attitudes are examined mainly within the ration choice framework which asserts that when considering euthanasia the value of life is weight against other alternatives. In addition to investigating the above variables, this study also examines whether or not people tend to make a distinction between active or passive euthanasia and suicide. And finally, this study also examines whether support for euthanasia is more of an abstract right-to-choose nature, or whether those who support euthanasia personally approve of it and would practice it if confronted with the choice. To assess the above research interests, a self-administered questionnaire was distributed to 115 College of Wooster students in three introductory classes. Results indicated that parental education was significantly (p<.05) related to approval of passive euthanasia, and that political affiliation, religiosity, belief in an afterlife, and belief in a consequential afterlife were significantly (p<.05) related to approval of active euthanasia. Results also indicated that the variables of race, gender, income, region, and religious affiliation were not significantly related to either active or passive euthanasia attitudes. In addition, the percentage of respondents who indicated that they supported passive euthanasia was greater than the percentage who indicated that they supported active euthanasia. And finally, results also showed that those respondents who indicated that they approved of active or passive euthanasia in general also tended to approve of avtive or passive euthanasia for themselves and their loved ones. Future research, focusing on the exploration of attitudes toward specific euthanasia situations, is suggested.
1998_SOAN_04936409.pdf	1998	The objective of this study was to analyze the ways that South Asian and American patterns of dating and marriage were combined in the norms and behavior of Pakistani and Indian students at the College of Wooster. A qualitative, open-ended survey with questions on background, dating and marriage was sent to 67 students whose horne addresses were in India or Pakistan, and 19 surveys were returned. Six interviews were also conducted. Results showed strong heterogeneous tendencies in short-term dating, related to parental pressure and subgroups in the sample; and strong homogeneous tendencies in marriage-oriented relationships. Education was confirmed as a form of dowry, channeling parental wealth into daughters, marking status, giving economic security to women, and serving as a vehicle for social mobility through upward marriages. Respondents gave expanded definitions of arranged marriage including self-selected, parent-approved marriages and parent-arranged dating. Finally, South Asians at Wooster proved to be in a liminal state and time, conforming completely to neither South Asian nor American norms and theories. Further research is suggested on topics more directly involving parents, family structure, higher education and cultural constructions of courting and marriage in South Asia.
1998_SOAN_04936410.pdf	1998	"In this study I examine the portrayal of masculinity in a popular American sitcom, Seinfeld. The study encompasses three main areas of research: humor, masculinity, and the mass media. Past literature and various theories in each area generate a series of important axioms: humor often contains contradictory layers of meaning, so that it both criticizes and reaffirms cultural norms; masculinity is a social construct and is often portrayed in the media utilizing the technique of contrasting masculinities; messages in the mass media hold a great deal of sway over audiences, but one must acknowledge the powers of interpretation that all individuals also possess. My research design was twofold: first, I conducted a ""deep"" textual analysis of the content of Seinfeld; second, a group of individuals watched various clips of Seinfeld and responded to questions regarding the themes on the show. Between my own analysis and that ofthe respondents, a variety of interpretations were discovered. On the surface, Seinfeld seems to display a fairly traditional masculinity where men are obsessed with sex and averse to both commitment and any display of femininity. As more layers of meaning are uncovered, however, a different theme emerges: Seinfeld is in fact pointing out that masculinity in our society is an ideal state consisting of stringent norms that few, if any, men can actually fulfill."
1998_SOAN_04936411.pdf	1998	"This thesis explores the divisions of the body in biomedical history, correlating the realms of the body known best to the religious and scientific movements of the Age of Reason, body, mind, and spirit. Mother metaphors emerged to then divide men and women along the lines of what has seemed for centuries to be natural capacity for healing. But the question still remains, do men and women have different healing capacities? Traditions, men perform technical, surgical tasks, and women give care in realm of the emotional body of the patient. To better understand how these divisions arose, and how they stay so prevalent in the hospital today, I chose to interview nine female nurses and 8 male nurses. I found that male and female nurses alike felt that women were better caregivers in the emotional realm of the body. Also, male nurses were clustered in the more trauma--oriented areas of the hospital, after much less time and experience spent in the areas of bedside nursing. Results showed that women were more empathetic in our biomedical society, through the telling of stories, self-defined roles. and were placed in positions where their capacities could be best utilized. Most nurses felt disrespect in their work environments and most women felt that this was linked to gender inequality. Political forces present in the hospital function to value the physical body of the doctor's interaction more highly than the emotional body of the nurse's work. Implications for Nurses as the role you are trying to fulfill. Sometimes you don't have a choice. Patient 's health depends on it, and we've got to make a decision [without the medical director]. More so with public health or anything else we have an independent role. Making a lot more decisions rather than being able to go down the hall and say, ""Here's the deal, what should I do?"" So, there's a lot more autonomy in public health."
1998_SOAN_04936412.pdf	1998	This study examines the relationship between the ancient Ohio earthworks and artifacts, and their role in the development of the identity of their builders. From this examination, interpretations suggesting possible roles that the artifacts and sites played in the development process of the Hopewell identity are offered. These interpretations are based on a careful analysis of the available data on Native American sites, specifically the earth mounds, in southern Ohio. In addition to using information provided by others regarding specific sites and their functions, this study will use information obtained through first-hand observations at two Ohio Hopewell sites in Newark and Chillicothe. Another related issue this study addresses is the archaeological ethics involved during the collection and display of Native American remains. How much information can outsiders, such as archaeologists and museums, report on certain Native American customs, artifacts, and sites, without creating a conflict between the scholars and Native groups? How can researchers excavate and study Native American sites and remains, without destroying the archaeological evidence? This report examines these questions, and explains the importance of preserving ancient remains, for both archaeologists and Native Americans. The results of these analyses indicate that there is a connection between ancient Native American remains and sites, and their sense of identity. From datacollected by people on the Serpent Mound, Kern Effigies, Seip and Baum enclosures, as well as additional examples from the Newark and Chillicothe area, interpretations regarding numerous aspects of this culture can be made. Remains from mortuary sites indicate social status differentiation, ceremonial practices, and competition with neighboring groups. Evidence unearthed at other mounds and sites suggests that these areas were gathering centers, perhaps used for purposes of trade or celebration. Additional findings indicate that the mounds functioned in many ways for this group. They acted as cultural symbols, strengthening their sense of unity and identity. Some mounds honored relatives, often containing their remains, and/ or objects of cultural importance. Yet other mounds served as calendars and references, indicating important times during the year. The mounds of central and southern Ohio and their contents hold vital information in terms of their importance to this culture, involvement in the development of the Mound Builder's identity, and indicate aspects of this culture.
1998_SOAN_04936413.pdf	1998	This paper attempts to reveal the forces in society that help form people's attitudes towards capital punishment and abortion. Little research has been conducted on both issues simultaneously in this area and this paper attempts to fill that gap. A typology of attitudes about abortion and capital punishment views has been created: people who oppose capital punishment and favor abortion hold Type I views; people who oppose both issues hold Type II views; people that favor both issues hold Type III views; and people who oppose capital punishment and favor abortion hold Type IV views. Four hypotheses are tested through a secondary analysis of the 1996 NORC data using a oneway analysis of variance. The findings follow the previous research and the theories of Durkheim and Marx, demonstrating a correlation between education, belief in institutional racism, political views, urbanization and types I and IV. The results also reveal a correlation between religious devotion and reverence for life - Type II. Finally, the study finds a correlation between high levels of education and favoring both abortion and capital punishment - Type III. Further research in this area could split the typology by controlling for capital punishment and abortion views.
1998_SOAN_04936416.pdf	1998	This paper is based on assumptions that society is biased toward protection of the juveniles and the elderly, the vulnerable age groups in society. Such cultural ideology or discourse is reflected in the content of the mass media. This case study focused on the crime stories presented in the Washington Post. The increase in the proportion of the elderly in the population around the world, and the newspaper media industry's persistent targeting of younger readers have lead social science researchers to look at the age stereotyping and possible effect to of the distortion of the reality of crime on readers from exposure to the news media. To explore the representation of ages in the media, content of crime stories in the Washington Post from six months of 1996 was analyzed by combining content analysis with respect to age of offenders and victims, and compared with information from the 1996 Uniform Crime Reports and 1996 National crime Victimization Survey to detect any distortion of reality. Finally, the effect of the media on people's fear of crime was examined using 1994 General Social Survey. This study found that the media does distort the reality of crime but no media effect on people's fear of crime with respect to age was found.
1998_SOAN_04936420.pdf	1998	I had an interest in organic farming and prepared a literature review on the topic. I did not find many small-scale studies that sought the meaning of organic farming from the farmers' perspectives. I decided to perform a small qualitative study of organic farmers in order to try to understand their motivations and obtain an insider's view of their alternative agricultural perspective. I interviewed twelve organic or more alternative farmers in the Wayne County area surrounding the College of Wooster, the organic certification coordinator, and a scientist from the Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center. I asked basic questions about the structures of their farms, their backgrounds in organic farming, lifestyles, perceptions of food, and thoughts about government and business involvement. I chose symbolic anthropology to discuss the cultural meanings farmers communicated to me about food, the Marxian cultural materialist approach to consider organic farming as a market-driven business, and new social movement theory to discuss how the organic farmers are a somewhat united force in Wayne County agriculture. I also compared the interview findings to the elements of the conventional and alternative paradigms in agriculture outlined by Beus and Dunlap. The fmdings of this study indicate that my sample is representative of a growing social movement in agriculture towards organic farming. Their perceptions generally fit into the idealized alternative model in agriculture. Their symbolic perceptions of food and the environment appeared to outweigh their market motivations to farm organically. Finally, with this study as a resource, I concluded with speculations on the future of organic farming in Wayne County.
1999_SOAN_04936428.pdf	1999	Past research shows that many people who are in opposition to race targeted interventions have a high school education or less or were raised by parents with a high school or less education, were raised in the Southern or Midwestern United States or were raised by parents who grew up in these two regions, whose parents were raised during segregation, are male, Catholic or Protestant, never or rarely attend church, and are more conservative in their political views. Results from those studies showed that opposition for racetargeted interventions are rooted in (1) the set of attitudes into which children are socialized early in life which results in a rigid, authoritarian adult who is prejudiced against anyone who is different from the self, (2) resentment and resistance to universal conformity which leads to conflict to determine who has authority over whom, and (3) white's fear of loss of economic status and political power on account of advancements for African-Americans. This Independent Study thesis will explore attitudes about racetargeted interventions and correlate these attitudes with a number of variables that will give a profile of the type of people who are sympathetic to the Ku Klux Klan.
1999_SOAN_04936430.pdf	1999	This thesis examines human evolution as portrayed in Natural History Museum exhibits. It came about due to my interest in physical anthropology, specifically human evolution and even more specifically, how human evolution is portrayed in museums. I chose three museums: The Cleveland Museum of Natural History, The Carnegie Museum of Natural History, and The Chicago Field Museum. After deciding on these three museums, I contacted people who were involved with both the museum and the exhibit for an interview. Those people include: Bruce Latimer from Cleveland's museum, Chris Beardfrom Carnegie, and Fred Smith from Chicago's museum. For the interviews, I composed a set form of questions to ask each person in order to compare and contrast the museums.Such questions related to how museums produce such exhibits, in terms of written material and reproductions, in addition to how human evolution is communicated to the public effectively. After visiting the museums and conducting the interviews, I discovered that although the museums differed greatly in style and age of exhibits, they roughly presented the same materials. Future research is suggested as a more in depth study would yield more specific answers.
1999_SOAN_04936431.pdf	1999	This study examined the differences in body image satisfaction among kindergarten and third grade students. The subjects answered five questions that asked the students to choose body figures. Additionally, they were asked two questions verbally pertaining to their body satisfaction. This test was administered individually by myself in the back of the classrooms. It was hypothesized that third grade girls would have a higher prevalence of body image problems than kindergarten girls and that third graders, overall, would experience body image dissatisfaction more so than kindergarten students. It was predicted that girls would show higher dissatisfaction of body image than boys; also, there would be no significant findings when comparing only the boys in the study. The results showed that there were significant findings concerning body image when comparing third grade and kindergarten students and when comparing the girls in the two grades. There were no significant findings when comparing the sexes and only boys. Future research is suggested, focusing on the prevalence of body image in both boys and girls starting as young as kindergarten. More emphasis might be placed on the different societal factors, such as education, family, religion, class and race, that are involved in forming body image perceptions in preadolescent children.
1998_SOAN_04936432.pdf	1998	This Independent Study examines reports of statistical misuses and tries to develop a theoretical framework for understanding what motivates people to break the rules dictating the proper usage of statistics. Existing literature on this topic is still lacking but an article by Spirer and Jaffe (1980) provides a good overview of the extent of statistical misuses. A few articles use more specific examples to illustrate this problem while other articles deal with scientific fraud in general. Three theories dealing with deviance are examined for their relevance to the understanding of individual's motives for misapplying statistics. Also, theories by Merton and Broad and Wade dealing with the structure of science are reviewed to gain a fuller comprehension of institutional forces which can pressure scientists to commit fraud. Two methods of factor analysis are examined as a means of demonstrating the intricacies involved in using statistics. Then, two ways of misusing statistics are demonstrated. Further studies are suggested, such as interviewing authors about their experiences with statistics, whether they have misused or been tempted to misuse them.
1999_SOAN_04936434.pdf	1999	Today, there is a growing number of mothers and dual earning families entering the workforce. I hypothesized that working parents face much stress because they must balance both their work and family responsibilities. I discussed literature and theory such as theory on role and status expectations. I used data from the General Social Survey and choose the variable of feelings of success at ballancing work and family to predict stress. The results of my regression analysis suggested that working parents, both men and women, deal with the conflicts of ballancing both work and family. Through several crosstab analyses, I discovered that job satisfaction is the variable that best predicts feelings of success at ballancing work and family.
1999_SOAN_04936435.pdf	1999	This thesis explores the role of the police officer in community-oriented policing from the perspective of police officers, an area of inquiry that has been virtually ignored in previous research on community policing. Various theories of community and urban development; bureaucracy, rationality, and organizational management; and police-officer socialization and the police subculture suggest some of the more significant social forces that influence the community-policing officer's role. To determine how these forces shape the ways in which community-policing officers view their role, a survey questionnaire was distributed to 92 police officers in police departments of three small Ohio communities, each of which has implemented community-oriented policing. Additionally, interviews were conducted with several police officers and administrators in each department to assess the ways in which issues of community, organizational management, and socialization mold the community-policing officer's role. Findings indicate that these issues are of great importance in shaping the role of the community-policing officer. Moreover, findings suggest that the community-policing officer's role is not constant, but shifts according to variations in how issues of community, organizational management, and socialization are manifested across police agencies. Directions for future research are suggested. Specifically, further research on the role of the community-policing officer should draw from a more heterogeneous sample of police agencies and police officers than the one used in this study. Further, future research should aim to identify additional issues in community-oriented policing that may influence the role of the community-policing officer .
1999_SOAN_04936436.pdf	1999	This study examines how role models are functional to American society. The study will distinguish among the types of role models chosen from a sample (n=77) of fifth and sixth graders from Wooster, Ohio who represent a population of small-town American children. The sample completed an original questionnaire formed specifically for this study; the questionnaire dealt with three areas of study: role models chosen, value transmission, and informative methods. Using the theories of Talcott Parsons, Albert Bandura, and Robin Williams, the study attempts to analyze the values which these role models transmit to the children who idolize them. Also, with statistical analysis of chisquare and t-tests, it looks at the difference in value transmission by athlete role models versus non-athletes. Gender of the subjects was also taken into account when assessing the values. Finally, the study determines what methods children use to gain information on their role models. Results showed that family members are the most important role models, followed by athletes. Most children chose same-sex role models. The values transmitted by role models varied by both occupation of the role model and sex of the respondent. Media plays a large part in providing children with information about their role models, but interpersonal communication is also a factor. A possible follow-up study should examine the motive behind role model choices and the effects of these relationships on the children.
1999_SOAN_04936437.pdf	1999	A collection and content analysis of 785 graffiti from eight high schools and 6 colleges/universities display that variables of gender, age/education, size of educational unit, and race are indicators of graffiti content. Through inductive reasoning, eleven content categories of miscellaneous, taboo language, violence, racial, religious, sexual,identity, drug/alcohol, declarations, life questions, and romance were derived to include in comparisons between the five different variables. Results indicate that females write more graffiti than males, producing almost 60 percent of the total graffiti. Among the content categories, romantic graffiti are most apparent, comprising 3 2 percent of the total graffiti sample. Graffiti content differs among the variable of age/education; the older students with more education are more likely to write graffiti pertaining to life, while high school bathrooms are most apparent with inscriptions of romance. The variable of size indicates that smaller colleges are more abundant with drug/alcohol content, while sexual graffiti dominate larger universities. Testing for race as an indicator of graffiti content displays that high schools with more racial heterogeneity include more racially insulting graffiti. Finally, the concepts of and results of this study pertain to three sociological theories of symbolic interaction, conflict, and social process theories .
1999_SOAN_04936438.pdf	1999	This thesis explores the nature by which The Far Side cartoon communicates its inherent cultural messages to its readers by analyzing their impact on shaping and reflecting societal perceptions. Specifically examined are cartoons depicting evolutionary themes, defined by a narrow and recurring range of distinctive cultural settings of the landscape and characteristic features of the individuals illustrated in the visual image. A content analysis of 151 of these cartoons incorporates three aspects: an individual analysis of the captions, a categorical breakdown of the visual image, and an evaluation of the scientific principles communicated to the reader. Also revealed is The Far Side's most effective vehicle in communicating to its cultural receivers the themes embedded in the cartoon: contrast to other cultures. Future research is suggested, focusing more on providing a questionnaire to a projected population in order to come to a deeper understanding of the perceptions affected by The Far Side.
1999_SOAN_04936439.pdf	1999	This thesis explores the changing portrayal of the Vietnam veteran in major motion pictures over the past twenty years. Prior to performing the analysis, I reviewed previous literature relevant to this subject and applied the theories of conflict and symbolic interactionism to the veteran's portrayal. Concerning the actual analysis, I analyzed the content of six films that contained Vietnam veterans as central characters. The six films were: Taxi Driver (1976), The Deerhunter (1978), Coming Home (1978), Rambo: Firstblood Part II (1985), Born On The Fourth Of July (1989), and Forrest Gump (1995). I chose these particular films by following the outline provided in previous literature, in which fairly three fairly distinct periods of Vietnam War related films are identified. The four periods I chose these films from were, 1968-1976, 1977-1980, 1981-1985, and 1986-1995 (used in order to keep the study as up to date as possible). I then created a questionnaire that tested for various demographic and role descriptive variables as well as the goals, methods, victimization of the veterans; the plot resolution to the film and a character rating for each veteran was also determined. Results indicated that the relationship between the year the film was released was proportionate to the type of portrayal that the veteran(s) received. The later the film was released the more likely it was that the veteran(s) would be portrayed more sympathetically and in a more positive manner. Future research is suggested, focusing on a comparison with Vietnam veteran portrayals in major motion pictures with those concerning veterans from WWII. Also possible would be a comparison of documentary films concerning Vietnam veterans with major motion pictures depicting Vietnam veterans.
1999_SOAN_04936440.pdf	1999	"In this study, I use content analysis to look at changes that have occurred over time in a selection of fairy tales. The tales I use for this study are ""Cinderella,"" ""Snow White,"" ""Hansel and Gretel,"" ""Rapunzel,"" ""Sleeping Beauty,"" and ""Rumpelstiltskin."" In Chapter I, I define ""folklore"" and ""fairy tale."" Then I look at the Grimms' background and their collection of the fairy tales during the 19th century. I discuss their background, and motivations that they had to collect fairy tales. Then I look at controversy surrounding the Grimms' methods. In Chapter II, I discuss rationalism, psychoanalysis, Marxism, functionalism, feminist theory, and structuralism, which have all been applied to fairy tales in many sources. In Chapter III, I discuss content analysis, and the categories that I created in order to conduct the analysis. The categories are based on oppositions that were repeated in all of the stories. In Chapter IV, I discuss the data that was presented in the previous chapter. In my discussion, I apply the theories discussed in Chapter II to the three versions of the stories. I look at historical aspects in the different time periods. For example, I look at changes in ideology, ideal types, and morals. What I find is that the categories are present in all of the versions. However, the importance of the categories, like beauty and wealth, have changed over time."
1999_SOAN_04936441.pdf	1999	This study investigates how Black women union members perceive labor organizations, their collective bargaining power and how their labor organizations have changed in recent years. The methods used for this research study consist of interviewing and surveying Black women who have been unionized for over 20 years. Are Black women satisfied with how their labor union functions and what do they feel are some of the specific benefits of being unionized? Thirteen women were interviewed and seven women were surveyed in Cincinnati and Cleveland, Ohio. Several different labor organizations, both private and public sector, were used for this study. Various theories, for example Marxism and Radical Feminist theory, were used throughout this study to analyze and interpret the research data collected. A majority of the women interviewed and surveyed were satisfied with their labor unions and their collective bargaining power. All of the women who were used for this study had been unionized for over 20 years and a majority of them felt that their union bargaining power is as strong if not stronger than when they originally joined. There were some exceptions conceming collective bargaining but most of the women were satisfied with the cunent state of their labor organizations. Race and gender were very important aspects of this study. Because Black women have expetienced racism and sexism within the labor market as well as labor unions, how Black women I perceive labor unions is crucial to understanding the importance of labor unions to Ametican workers in today's society.
1999_SOAN_04936442.pdf	1999	This study explores the readjustment process of third culture kids (TCKs; children who grew up overseas) into the United States and evaluates the reentry programs which assist in the transition. Through a literature review, variables are suggested which have an impact on the success of one's reentry. The 105 participating missionary kids included those who attended a reentry program and those who did not. By testing the variables deemed important by the literature, the participants success of adjustment was measured in three areas: social, psychological, and academic adjustment. The responses provided by those who participated in a reentry program supported the effectiveness of the programs. However, in comparison to the control group, it appeared that those who did not participate in a reentry program adjusted better than those who did. This difference suggests some important influences of external variables such as differences in age, length of time spent overseas, and the overseas location. The results suggest that reentry programs must take into account the specific needs of TCKs attending their programs by monitoring the impact of those external variables on the readjustment process.
1999_SOAN_04936443.pdf	1999	"The purpose of this Independent Study thesis is to explore the ways in which the Girl Scouts of the United States of America has responded to changing gender ideologies and changes in the social positioning of women in contemporary society. A historical review of women's history in conjunction with a literature review of Scouting illustrates the embedded nature of gender ideals and practices. Drawing on symbolic anthropology, the theories of organizational culture, feminist anthropology, and the discourse concerning single-sex institutions, I view GSUSA as a complex organization that symbolizes the struggle over contemporary definitions of gender equality. In order to gain a holistic understanding of Scouting culture and the organization's communication, I conducted interviews with key personnel and collected documents from the National Headquarters in New York and the Heritage Trails Regional Girl Scout Council in Mansfield, Ohio. I used the ethnographic method of participant observation with Brownie Troop 83 in Wooster, Ohio. To explore the variable nature of troops, I interviewed several Brownie leaders from the Wooster area. From this data, one can see that National has a clear progressive framework in mind, stressing themes like science, math, physical fitness, and business acumen. However, this ideology clashes with a GSUSA history deeply rooted in domesticity and tradition. Thus, the regional Council is provided with a conflicting agenda, reinterprets GSUSA goals, and in many instances ends up reinforcing traditional gender practices. In turn, local leaders experience a lack of clarity within GSUSA and carefully balance their own values with those of larger society. This fragmentation and diversity symbolizes the difficulties associated with ""top-down"" change. As we move into the 21st century, organizations steeped in tradition may benefit from ""horizontal"" policy making that evaluates definitions of equality while acknowledging contemporary gender ideals."
1999_SOAN_04936444.pdf	1999	"The Rave Experience is an ethnographic analysis ofthe Cleveland, Ohio rave scene. A rave, as it pertains to this study, is basically an all night dance party. The main purpose of this study was to gain the insiders or ravers perspective of rave culture through research based upon participant observation and interviews with rave participants. The - study extended from November 1998 through January 1999. The Rave Experience reviews several pieces of literature concerning rave culture, which focus upon such aspects of rave as dance, drug use, and how rave relates to other facets of society. In addition, this thesis explores several theories, which are used to understand and explain rave culture such as: rave exists as an institution created by youths in search of their identity; rave is a youth resistance movement and a form of escape from mainstream society; and rave builds social solidarity among its participants, while social standing within the rave scene is determined upon ""subcultural capital."" Also, the methods of my research are reviewed and documented in detail. Last, the findings of my research are presented and based upon the insiders or ravers perspective."
1999_SOAN_04936445.pdf	1999	"This study examines the racial and class consciousness of eight members of the Black middle class from Wooster, Oh and Olean, Ny. Whereas many studies attempt to measure the ""objective"" factors involved in determining the quality of life and consciousness of the Black middle class, my study assesses the ""subjective"" interpretations and perspectives of Black middle class individuals surrounding issues of race, class, and ethnic identity. My literature review analyzes the competing definitions of the Black middle class, their historical development, and the views surrounding their identity. My theoretical model is twofold: 1) drawing on the work of Royce, it stresses the importance of the subjective dimensions of ethnic and class identification, 2) rooted in the works of Landry, Willie, and Feagin and Sikes, it stresses the continued significance of racism and discrimination in the lives of members of the Black middle class. Moreover, drawing upon Jackman and Jackman's work, I assert that race, much more so than class, is prevalent within the consciousness of members of the Black middle class. To assess the nature of racial and class consciousness among the Black middle class, I used in-depth interviewing. I discovered that racism and discrimination remain significant factors in the lives of the Black middle class, and that my contributors exhibited a highly developed racial consciousness. At the same time, their class consciousness was fairly weakly developed, even though I discovered some evidence to suggest that my contributors had adopted styles of speaking and acting characteristic of the white middle class. Through variation in responses, my findings exemplified the complex inter-relationship of class and racial identies. My analysis section explores some of the reasons behind this complex interrelationship, as well as possible reasons behind my contributors' highly developed racial consciousness."
1999_SOAN_04936446.pdf	1999	The purpose of this thesis is to explore the uses of humor in the workplace, and the different uses it has for individuals of different genders and differing levels of status. I propose that humor can be used to one's benefit in the office if used properly; however, literature and theory on humor, status, and gender suggest that men and women and those of high and low status are not equally prepared to use humor effectively. To study these differences, I distributed questionnaires to 41 respondents in two companies, followed by 8 follow-up interviews. The results of previous studies found males to be more likely to be producers of humor while females are more likely to appreciate humor, hypotheses which were not confirmed in my analysis of data. Suggested differences by status also were not supported by my research. However, several other variables-including length of time in the company or position, and age-were found to have a significant effect on one's perception ofhumor. Further research is suggested to include the variables of race, marital status, sexual orientation, and tokenism.
1999_SOAN_04936447.pdf	1999	The consumers of secondhand items are as unique as the items they purchase. Through this research I explored who these consumers are. Secondhand consumers are diverse across race, gender, age, and income divisions. Through the use of a survey, the many reason people buy secondhand emerged. The range extended from the simple economic need to the desire for whimsical items. People are interested in the exchange of goods from one time to another. The value placement put upon the items they purchase are left to their own choice, as they have special meaning for what they buy. What people buy is also quite diverse, some buy anything whereas others are in search of antiques only. For some, a stigma exists, however they are able to rationalize it or take an alternate route in finding what they are looking for. Much of secondhand consumerism about acquiring masses of items, particular or not, in order to meet the goals and satisfactions of their consumer desire .
1999_SOAN_04936448.pdf	1999	This study looks closely at the relationship between women who are employed and women who make a living as homemakers and their levels of self-esteem. The data in this study was collected through General Social Survey which was taken from NORC, National Opinion Research Center, at the University of Chicago in 1996. There were a total of 1,619 women, 1,272 of which were caucasian, 270 who were African-American, and 77 women of other ethnic backgrounds. After careful selection of appropriate survey questions, the data was placed into the program SPSS where some variables were recoded and run using the chi square test. The dependent variable, self-esteem, was compiled of particular measurements such as, feelings of control over their life, belief that most of the bad things that happen to them are due to bad luck not something they did, belief that the good things in their life are due to good luck, and that they have no particular plan in life. The results showed employed women to have higher levels of selfesteem than homemakers except when these women had three or more children. Both homemakers and paid women reported high levels of selfesteem when the family income was $30,000 or greater. Social activity also raised women's self-esteem, but more so for employed women than homemakers. The results showed that homemaker's self-esteem was lowered if their mother worked outside the home, this variable did not effect employed women's self-esteem. Employed women experienced higher levels of self-esteem if they felt successful in their family life.
1999_SOAN_04936449.pdf	1999	This study examines the contemporary social impact of the Chipko Andolan, a grassroots environmental movement, that was initiated during the 1970s in the Himalaya region of India. It explores what forms Chipko has revealed itself, past and presently, and why it has taken these forms. The literature review summarizes studies that provide the basic narrative of the movement, as well as those that are more critical of Chipko. Social movement theory is the theoretical basis for the study, providing a framework for understanding why and how the movement has changed in form and substance over the past 20 years. Research for the actual study was conducted over a three-week period, through interviews and periodical searches in New Delhi, as well as participant observation and interviews in the villages of Baccher and Bandwara, located in the Garhwal region of UttarPradesh, India. The Himalaya region at large continues to suffer from economic loss and environmental degradation, even though original Chipko protest led to the ban of logging in the region. However, at least within the two villages of Baccher and Bandwara, the Chipko Andolan is still in process and has evolved into a social movement that has manifested itself, addressing contemporary issues in several forms. Acts of confrontational protest have evolved into the establishment of educational and income-generating projects; symbolic resistance from larger external forces, particularly among Himalayan women, is another form in which the movement has evolved to take shape.
1999_SOAN_04936450.pdf	1999	This thesis attempts to explore the emotional labor that a nurse performs when she is communicating with NICU parents. This is original exploratory research. Besides the medical duties that are required of nurses, they provide emotional labor. The nurses perform emotional labor by consoling, educating and listening to the parents. I use the work of Arlie Hochschild (1983) as a basis for explaining the emotional labor that nurses perform when communicating with parents. In order to obtain the data for this study, I interviewed 14 NICU nurses and observed the unit of the children's hospital and the NICU nurses. These interviews and observations allowed me to better understand and portray the emotional labor that nurses perform. I will use Hochschild theory of emotional labor to explain the data. The data that I obtained demonstrated that nurses perform emotional work when communicating with parents. More research is needed to further explore the topic.
1999_SOAN_04936451.pdf	1999	Computer crimes are a major problem for today's society. This thesis ascertains the extent and discusses predictors of computer crimes among college students. Three types of computer crimes were investigated: software piracy, piracy of music in electronic formats, and unauthorized computer use. Data were gathered using 179 self report questionnaires administered to College ofWooster students. The main theories used included Merton's theory of anomie, corporate culture theory, Derber's theory of wilding, and Sutherland's theory of differential association. Results showed that computer crimes were widespread among college students. Students who own computers were significantly (p < 0.004) more likely to commit software piracy than students who do not own computers. Peer involvement was a key predictor of computer crimes. However impersonal computer resources, such as web pages, computer bulletin boards and news groups, also had strong impact on computer criminals. Students' computer experience was significantly (p =< 0. 01) related to the frequency of unauthorized computer access. Further research is needed to determine ifthere are significant relationships between computer experience and other types of computer crimes. Students' attitudes towards lying, stealing and plagiarism were significantly (p =< 0.0004) related to students committing software piracy. Cost of computer software was the main motivation this piracy. More scholarly research on computer crimes is needed so that society can better understand and prevent this growing problem.
2014_SOAN_05190918.pdf	2014	Rape and sexual assault are common problems on college campuses. This paper draws on data from 129 surveys with students at a small liberal arts college to explore the construction of “victimhood” in such cases. In addition, interviews were held with local therapists. Two different surveys were distributed to students, each containing a slightly different vignette about an assault. The surveys asked questions relating to definitions of the word victim and blame. Each survey featured a vignette where the victim and offender were not clearly defined. One concluded that the victim had sexual relations without her consent, and the other did not determine she had sexual relations, however, she still obtained injuries. The surveys were passed out to two upper level sociology classes and three introductory to sociology classes. 129 surveys were returned. The researcher explored differences in responses by gender and vignette. A hypothesis about the relationship between perceptions of a just world and constructions of victimhood was also explored. The results suggest that participants closely identify with the portrayal of the “ideal victim.” They also see victims are created by the action imposed upon them. In addition, the researcher looked at the how just world scores correlated with the assignment of blame and empathy. Finally, overall themes of blame and justice were considered in the construction of victimhood.
2014_SOAN_05249400.pdf	2014	" The diagnoses of attention problems and the use of medications to treat them have drastically increased in America. Moreover, sociological research suggests that illicit psychostimulant use is also very prevalent on college campuses. My study surveys college undergraduates in order to better understand this phenomenon. This study was designed to examine: (1) illicit use of psychostimulants and perceptions of stimulant use by both users and non-users; (2) how recreational and non-medical users rationalize the use of these drugs in comparison to medical users; and (3) individual’s motivations for stimulant use (e.g., enhancement of academic performance, improvement of athletic performance, or expansion of social life). Quantitative methods were utilized to analyze the use of psychostimulants at a small liberal arts college in the Midwest. Surveys were distributed randomly and anonymously to 400 students through campus-mail. The results are based on the 208 responses collected. (A response rate of 52.0 percent.) The data are interpreted using three distinct sociological frameworks: functionalism, post-structuralism, and symbolic interactionism."
2014_SOAN_05256429.pdf	2014	The occurrence of family mealtime is developmentally beneficial to both children and adolescents. Although the act of family meals has been identified as important, elements that affect the occurrence, and quality of these meals has yet to be investigated. The present study examines the influence of social class status and family structure on the frequency and quality of family mealtime. An online survey was created and distributed to various parents using snowball sampling. The final results consisted of both qualitative and quantitative data. Common themes within the qualitative data were identified and applied to the results of the quantitative data. Frequency distributions, crosstabs, and regressions were used in the analysis to identify relationships between variables of social class and family structure, and the frequency and quality of family meals. Although not all predicted relationships were present in the sample, the variable most predicting the occurrence of family meals was the number of activities children had per week and the variable most predicting the quality of mealtime was the location of the meal within the home. It is also important to note that the results of this study highlight the importance of both structural and cultural forces in our society.
2014_SOAN_05272339.pdf	2014	What is the legacy of the Arab Spring, Occupy Wall Street, and associated protests? This is the question at the heart of this paper. To answer it, I will argue that these protests are indicative of an international mobilization that together shared both a horizontal structure and pseudo-utopian philosophy, which, in turn, affected how activists understood their own movements. To begin, this paper traces the precursors of these horizontal protests within the literature, analyzing their origins in events such as the World Trade Organization protests in Seattle (1999) and the World Social Forums since then. Next, I use Giorgio Agamben’s theorization of the “Coming Community” and Richard Day’s critique of this same concept to interpret these as “coming movements,” which afford new potentialities without fully realizing Agamben’s pseudo-Utopian vision. Lastly, through analysis of interviews with Moroccan activists who participated in the February 20th Movement—an offshoot of the Arab Spring—I will demonstrate that the lived experience of activists within this movement fits the structure and philosophy analyzed above.
2014_SOAN_05299114.pdf	2014	"Abstract Many believe that fatherlessness is primarily a racial issue. This study recognizes that although fatherlessness exists in all races, it is more prevalent within the African American community. Before beginning this project I assumed there was a primary factor causing fathers to be absent from their children’s lives, but I found that there is not a single reason causing this social trend; it is due to many causes. I arrived at this conclusion by studying the literature and interviewing ten students of various races, from The College of Wooster, and one father. Among the reasons my subjects offered for absent fathers were: young age; substance abuse; absence of paternal role models; and deterioration of relationship. My interviews also revealed the impact that absentee fathers have on children: all of the students I interviewed want children; they desire to forgive their fathers, but they are unsure of full acceptance; the women tend to seek the approval of a male(s); the students felt unwanted emotional stress from their fathers leaving and coming back; in their efforts to deal with this issue students look to media for guidance. Ultimately, this study helps contribute information on how to best mitigate fatherlessness and help mentor youth who are fatherless."
2014_SOAN_05323352.pdf	2014	The opening of Japan to the West, following over two hundred years of seclusion, resulted in a number of political, economic, and cultural transitions during the Meiji era (1868-1912). A change in social gender roles and aspects of national identity, presented to the public through government discourse, were at the center of reform. This study explores the influence of Western ideas and Meiji government discourse on the population of Japan, specifically depicted in woodblock prints known as kuchi-e. Kuchi-e were found in novels and literary magazines, produced after 1895, and provide an example of art as an agent to view cultural change. Content analysis of forty kuchi-e from the Zwegat Collection provide images relating to social gender roles and the need for a strong national identity at the turn of the twentieth century. Ideas concerning the synthesis of tradition and modernity during the Meiji era are also present in the kuchi-e and provide another facet of the study. The results of the research indicate that the cultural transformation that occurred in Meiji Japan is well represented in kuchi-e woodblock prints.
2014_SOAN_05324012.pdf	2014	Over the last twenty years or so there has come a growing awareness of a segment of the population that resists vaccination. I set out to find out who was in this “anti-vaccination movement” and why they make the choices they do. In my research, I spoke to more than 200 parents and found that most of these people are not “anti-vaccine” and that most of them do give at least some vaccines to their children. Many of these parents are simply making a vaccine-by-vaccine risk analysis, and deciding that some vaccines are riskier than they can accept, relative to the disease, while others are not. Their risk analyses are affected by their participation in the type of diverse, translocal community that Paul Rabinow calls a biosociality. Further, their vaccine decisions may also be related to their own personal notions of what it means to be a good citizen. These findings all suggest that labeling parents as “anti-vaccine” is erroneous and that improving the conversation about and the culture of vaccination is a much better way to improve vaccination rates and public attitudes toward vaccination. There will always be parents who do not wish to give any vaccines to their children, and there will always be people with reasons for which they should not be vaccinated. However if these reasons are recognized and respected and not dismissed as being a part of an anti-vaccine, anti-vaccination movement, then parents who are on the fence regarding vaccination may be more likely to give more vaccines, even if they do not give every vaccine.
2014_SOAN_05330355.pdf	2014	Many studies have tested the validity of Bourdieu’s theory of cultural capital. However, few studies have investigated technology as a new form of cultural capital. Of the studies that have looked at this, it is argued that skill with technology is no longer simply about access to technology. This Independent Study examines the extent to which technology is a new form of cultural capital and if access is the central issue of this topic. Eight teachers were interviewed to find their perceptions of the comfort level of students’ interactions with technology. An analysis of the interviews showed that technological usage is consistent with Bourdieu’s idea of habitus: students who are exposed to technology at a young age consistently outperform their peers in comfort with technology. This means that lower income students struggle to keep up with their upper class classmates with technological skill. A stratification of comfort level with technology is still visible when access to technology later in life is available, such as through a school that gives students’ their own technological device. This paper argues that access to technology is still important to maintain a climbable “social ladder,” but access must be provided in the early years of life.
2014_SOAN_05332527.pdf	2014	The literature explores the relationship between parental socioeconomic status and differing perspectives on the purpose and objectives of education between parents and teachers. However, the literature fails to examine the relationship between parents’ and teachers’ attitudes and expectations within parent-teacher relationships. This study addresses the influences of teachers’ perceptions and expectations and the factors that affect the parent-teacher relationship. Data was gathered through interviews conducted with primary school teachers, teaching in both lower class and upper class communities. These interviews were transcribed and analyzed to find patterns and form conclusions. The findings imply that the type of communicative techniques used, the degree of value one applies to others’ time and effort, and the extent to which one understands and complies with the boundaries of different situations directly influence teachers’ perceptions of parent-teacher relationships.
2014_SOAN_05332535.pdf	2014	"For my Independent Study project, I examined how teachers’ perspectives of play are influenced by the educational philosophy the school has adopted. This study explores the loss of play that has occurred in modern America and how it is affecting the role of the child in society and the role of play in education. I specifically focused on two private schools with very different philosophies to see if the environment and structure of the school affected teachers perspectives on what play is, how much play should be included in the school day, and if there any school philosophy is exempt from this decline in play. Two schools in a small urban Ohio community were chosen for my study: Centerville Montessori, and St. Johns Elementary. I interviewed four early childhood teachers from each school on their views on play in education and its role in the classroom. I also observed the indoor and outdoor environments at each school to see what types of materials and spaces each school provided for play. There were differences in the way that each school’s teachers talked about play. Centerville Montessori had a less structured school environment than St. Johns Elementary, which was very structured. The students at Centerville Montessori had more flexibility to choose their work, but teachers stressed they did not consider their work to be play based. St. Johns provides very little time for play due to standards and pressure from parents. However, both schools talked about the importance of play for learning and development, but did not seem to provide a large amount of time for play in the school day. Therefore, the loss of play applies to both schools regardless of the philosophy."
2014_SOAN_05344073.pdf	2014	This research explores the processes involved in the commodification of quinoa, a grain native to the South American Andes. After being introduced to the US marketplace in the early 1980s, quinoa has transformed from South American indigenous staple to a darling of the US food industry. In this research I use the theoretical framework of Karl Marx and Arjun Appadurai to uncover the processes at work in the commodification of quinoa. As quinoa enters the US market and grows in popularity, it necessarily becomes increasingly delinked from its place of origin at the same time as it undergoes changes - both physically and culturally - in order to appeal to a different consumer base. Using Marx and Appadurai’s terminology, it becomes indigenized and fetishized. Fetishization refers to the process by which the consumer is removed from the realities of production. Indigenization refers to the process by which a foreign object becomes molded to fit within the cultural values of a new culture. My research question is: what do the processes of fetishization and indigenization look like for quinoa in the US marketplace? In order to understand these two questions I carried out three methods. I surveyed 180 quinoa consumers, carried out a content analysis of various quinoa packages, and traveled to Colorado where I conducted five ethnographic interviews and visited the only commercial quinoa farm in the US. Through these three methods I found that the indigenization of quinoa took three main forms: physical indigenization (turning plain quinoa into products American consumers recognize and desire), the indigenization of language, and finally growing the product in the US. I found that indigenization and fetishization are very intricately linked and work together to obscure the reality of production from the consumer. My goal in this thesis is to provide a meaningful understanding not only of the consumption of quinoa within the United States but ultimately a broader understanding of our relationship with the products we own and consume.
2014_SOAN_05347945.pdf	2014	Since 1980, the U.S. child welfare system has exhibited an increasing reliance upon kinship caregivers as a resource for children who have been removed from the homes of their birthparents due to allegations of abuse or neglect. Literature suggests that agencies differ considerably in their treatment of kinship care providers; however, limited research has been conducted examining the causes and implications of this variation, especially in the case of Ohio’s county-based system. The current study thus aims to define the distinguishing characteristics of kinship policies and procedures of child welfare agencies across Ohio, and to consider the impact of various factors upon agencies’ involvement with kinship caregivers. A kinship policy survey was designed in collaboration with local agency staff and the director of PCSAO, a large membership of Ohio public children services agencies, and then distributed to Ohio’s 88 county agencies. One hundred and forty-three respondents from 45 (51%) counties participated, and seven interviews supplement the quantitative data. Local kinship policies and procedures were found to be significantly impacted by the designation of a kinship worker, preferences for particular legal and licensure statuses for kin, various county-level demographic characteristics, and restrictions in agencies’ funding streams.
2014_SOAN_05357853.pdf	2014	This study researches the tactics and rhetoric used by oil and gas companies and pro-fracking organizations to promote the industry in the face of well-publicized anti-fracking discourse. There have been a small number of studies on the effects of fracking in communities which have emphasized both the advantages and threats to having the industry in your backyard, however there has been little mention of the actual discourse or tactics used by either side, in particular the supporters of the industry, in order to combat concern over potential risks. Interviewing employees of pro-fracking organizations, as well as performing content analysis of oil and gas company websites completed the study, and the data was analyzed using the theoretical frameworks provided by Ulrich Beck’s Risk Society and Karl Marx’s The Commodity. This study argues that pro-fracking discourse involves maintaining that the benefits outweigh the risks when it comes to fracking and arguments made correspond with both theoretical frameworks provided. They coincide with Beck’s theory by exemplifying how the producers of risk and average citizens contribute and respond to the modern risk society, and coincide with Marx by making a natural resource a commodity and promoting a financial relationship between the companies and community members.
2014_SOAN_05367728.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study is to understand how museums can be used as a means of promoting social awareness through the work of African American photographer Hank Willis Thomas. Through the use of surveys administered to museum patrons and an in-depth interview with the curator at the Cleveland Museum of Art, this study intends to uncover the ways in which Americans understand issues surrounding race and ethnicity in America. By studying the ways in which people understand his series Unbranded: Reflections in Black Corporate America, 1968-2008, we can better understand how Americans tend to think, or not think about race in America. The museum space then becomes a platform in which people can talk about controversial topics.
2014_SOAN_05369150.pdf	2014	According to recent statistics provided by the National Institute of Mental Health (2013), American women are twice as likely as men to face diagnosis with an anxiety disorder. While there are existing bodies of sociological and feminist work theorizing both the social construction of mental illness categories and the historical pathologization of women, there is no contemporary dialogue centered on gendered disparity in anxiety diagnosis rates. In this paper, I contribute to ongoing discussion of neoliberal influence on the gendering of mental illness through an exploration of the forces contributing to disparity in rates of diagnosis with anxiety disorders. In response to themes brought to light while analyzing survey data provided by 69 college students, my work focuses on the influence personal experience has on perception, contradictions between the biological and the social, and constructions of masculinity. I conclude by arguing the necessity of an American mental health justice movement that recognizes the neoliberal state, rather than the individual, as the primary site of anxiety production.
2014_SOAN_05370699.pdf	2014	This study aims to explore tzedakah, charitable work intended to create a just society, as a multivocal symbol in the post-diaspora Jewish community in Buenos Aires during the 20th century. Symbols display multivocality if they have more than a single purpose and achieve a variety of goals within a society. I apply a theoretical framework consisting of ideas presented by Victor Turner and Clifford Geertz to analyze information gathered from primary sources and historical studies. I review materials pertaining to Jewish philanthropy, Argentine Jewish culture, and the work of La Sociedad de Damas Israelitas de Beneficencia, a charitable organization founded by Argentine Jewish women. My analysis of La Sociedad’s work reveal that the organization performed tzedakah in hopes of achieving the following goals: ensuring better lives for abandoned Jewish girls; raising a generation of Argentine Jews that were involved in their religious culture but also accepted by their non-Jewish Argentine neighbors; and improving the dominate society’s perceptions of the Argentine Jewish community. This study explains the motivations of a charitable organization created by members of an ethnic minority.
2014_SOAN_05370721.pdf	2014	Humor has been a way for people to approach tough topics for many years in American media. One show well known for it is Saturday Night Live. This study approaches analyzing episodes of Saturday Night Live with Butler and Goffman's theories of performance with a focus on how gender is presented and performed. Gender has been presented differently over the years on the long-lasting program. Stereotypes about women and men are present in each episode. This study also looks at how actors perform the characters and how that is a performance of their characters performing in the social interactions of each sketch. Each character does everything they do to create a view of themselves they wish others to see. Gender is a pert of this performance, but gender is also performative and something that is constantly happening because of how we were raised.
2014_SOAN_05371362.pdf	2014	As global phenomena, diasporas offer a unique and intriguing lens through which identity can be understood. Cultural identity is not a definable concept; identities may shift in relative importance over time as political agents prioritize one element over others to serve different political means. This study attempts to understand the formation and negotiation of cultural identity within the Tibetan diaspora. Since the Chinese invasion in 1959, a regular stream of Tibetan people have fled Tibet into neighboring countries such as India, Nepal and Bhutan. Through the Tibetan US Resettlement Project, 1,000 Tibetans were granted visas and invited to immigrate to the United States in the early 1990s. Since then, the population of Tibetan immigrants in exile has grown exponentially. In the diaspora, the creation of community cultural centers has been invaluable to the preservation of Tibetan cultural identity. Using data collected at the Tibetan American Foundation of America in St. Paul, Minnesota, one of the original placement sites for newly arrived immigrants, and a combination of two anthropological and political theoretical models, this study critically assesses the success of the Foundation in helping immigrants negotiate a new identity within the United States.
2014_SOAN_05372125.pdf	2014	This study explores the construction of sexual identities of queer women through the reading/writing of Doctor Who fanfiction as an online medium. In this sense, fanfiction becomes a liminal space where individuals can navigate and explore identities. In order to make the connection between real life and the virtual world of fanfiction, this thesis utilizes participant observation at Wizard World Comic Con in Austin, Texas; surveys completed by individuals who read and/or write fanfiction; and fanfiction narratives.  I argue that virtual community can become reality through the common experience of embodied encounters with online text. With the support of theories on presentation of self, sexuality, gender, and virtual realities, this study explores aspects of the Doctor Who community with a focus on sexual identities. 
2014_SOAN_05372495.pdf	2014	"In 2004, the company “Dove” created their “Campaign for Real Beauty,” a series of beauty campaigns and advertisements that attempted to “widen the definition of beauty” and make women feel more confident and empowered by the way they look. One of Dove’s more recent beauty campaigns entitled “Real Beauty Sketches,” features women who enter unknowingly into a study that promotes the idea, “you are more beautiful than you think,” highlighting the fact that people tend to find you more attractive than you find yourself. In this research, I utilize Dove’s beauty campaign, “Real Beauty Sketches,” to explore the notions of beauty in women who are blind or visually impaired. This study uses the research methods of individual interviews and focus groups of women who are legally blind and pulls upon theorists Judith Butler, Rosemarie Garland-Thomson, Naomi Wolf’s “beauty myth,” and the concept of “intersectionality.” Utilizing literature and theory based on the topics of “Beauty,” “Gender,” “Disability,” and “intersectionality,” coupled with my research methods, I conclude that our societal beauty expectations for women and the emotions and ideas expressed by the women featured in Dove’s “Real Beauty Sketches,” are more applicable to women who are blind or visually impaired than I previously believed.  Dove. (2013). The Dove Campaign for Real Beauty. In Articles and Advice. Retrieved March 3, 2014 (http://www.dove.us/social-mission/campaign-for-real-beauty.aspx)  Dove. (2013). Real Beauty Sketches. Retrieved March 3, 2014 (http://realbeautysketches.dove.us/)  In this research, I use the phrases “legally blind” and “blind and visually impaired” interchangeably. All of the participants in this study are considered “legally blind” but have varying forms of visual impairments or blindness."
2014_SOAN_05372557.pdf	2014	"In this study I investigate how college-age students in Singapore perceive feminism. From an outsider’s perspective, it may seem like Singaporeans have a satisfactory level of gender equality in terms of basic human rights and opportunities. This is reflected in the United Nations Human Development Report’s Gender Inequality Index (GII) where Singapore was ranked 13th out of the 148 ranked countries (Ministry of Social and Family Development, Singapore 2013). Despite the level of equality the young nation has accomplished so far, sexism is still inherent in Singapore’s patriarchal society. My research not only examines the feminist environment in Singapore but also aims to bring about awareness of gender inequalities to a society where hegemonic masculinities are deeply embedded. In taking a glance into the feminism environment of college-age students in Singapore, one can make predictions for the future of gender equality in Singapore as these students represent Singapore’s future. While it is important to educate and bring awareness to feminism and the women’s movement in Singapore, it is also vital to allow and understand the students’ own way of negotiating a feminism that is unique to Singapore. In other words, my study does not aim to impose Western ideals of feminism into Singapore, but rather allocate agency to Singaporeans for them to come up with their own distinct form of feminism that would improve the gender equality climate there."
2014_SOAN_05372663.pdf	2014	This research explores the current state of riparian communities in Northern Thailand. Historically, these communities have shared a deep economic, social, and cultural connection to the country‟s rivers. Now, the construction of dams threatens the very foundation of this cultural bedrock. This study further examines the effects dams would have on local village communities and the mobilization behind village protests that are against these developmental projects. Within Northern Thailand‟s great river basin network, I was able to visit sections of three rivers. I concentrated on the village Don Chai, which exemplifies resistance to changing the relationship between community and river. Through interviews, home stays, and participant observation I was able to collect information for this research. This study draws on Mauss‟s conception of total social fact and how water is a total social fact. Orlove and Caton‟s waterworld framework builds off of Mauss‟s interpretation to illustrate that water is multi-dimensional and permeates multiple domains within society. Finally, I draw on Michael Dove‟s political ecology theory to illustrate the political relationship between humans and the environment. Thus, the importance of water‟s connectivity should not be underestimated as it permeates and sustains all facets of society.
2014_SOAN_05373253.pdf	2014	Este proyecto analiza los derechos de las mujeres y la desigualdad entre los sexos en Chile y España durante sus períodos respectivos de dictadura, la de Augusto Pinochet y la de Francisco Franco. Para realizar este análisis, hice una comparación literaria sobre una novela de la autora chilena Isabel Allende (La casa de los espíritus) con dos obras teatrales cortas de la autora española Lidia Falcón (Tu único amor y ¡Parid, parid malditas!). Realicé la comparación de la literatura a través de una lente sociológica empleando las teorías de Marx y Engels para contestar la pregunta central de mi investigación: ¿Cómo sirve un análisis de la literatura creativa española y chilena mediante la lente de la sociología para proveer un comentario social sobre la violencia contra las mujeres en España y Chile durante sus respectivos períodos de dictadura?
2014_SOAN_05374177.pdf	2014	According to the Bureau of Justice’s special report on “Parents in Prison and Their Minor Children”, the United States’ prisons held approximately 744,200 fathers around midyear 2007. Fathers in prison have also been reported having 1,559,200 children’ (U.S. Department of Justice, 2010). 1,559,200 children have fathers in prison and not at home during important years of child development. This Independent Study explores the effects of paternal incarceration on the family through the personal experiences of the family members involved. From previous literature and using sociological theories, a scholarly conversation is created about the social, financial, and emotional implications on the family that are linked to the outcomes of paternal incarceration. My qualitative research study considers the respective experiences of the family members and examines the effects and challenges imposed on the family because of the ever growing social issue of paternal incarceration.
2014_SOAN_05374190.pdf	2014	This research examines the organizational factors that impact the success of urban farms in Cleveland, Ohio. In Cleveland there are tons of vacant lots, dozens of farmers markets, and a strong local food scene. Urban agriculture has the ability to provide a multitude of benefits to the producers, consumers, and local community members. Why then is it so difficult for some urban farmers to survive? I take a closer look at how the different actors and the organizational cultures they operate within influences how they view the benefits of urban agriculture and how they try to achieve them. I interviewed six people, all of whom worked on or closely with urban farms. I examined their stories through a theoretical framework developed by Michael Jamison. He concluded that different organizations understood the benefits and functions of community gardens differently because they had conflicting organizational cultures. What I found was that not all urban farmers view the benefits the same way. Some did not think that urban agriculture even had any substantial benefits to offer to the surrounding community. Additionally, my data showed that there is an element in current urban agriculture that was not in Jamison’s research on community gardens. Contemporary urban agriculture is more involved with the market than is used to be. Due to this different organizational context, there have emerged a number of different ways that urban farms try to achieve the benefits of urban agriculture as they define them.
2014_SOAN_05374274.pdf	2014	There are approximately 500,000 youth in the United States foster care system today. Every year 25,000 young people between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one leave the system and enter into society. They face many challenges. This project focuses on a set of interrelated questions. How does policy affect workers in the system and their ability to help youth age out? How do workers address the challenges they face in order to effectively do their job? Finally do how youth manage the hardships they must face? I examine these questions through the frameworks of Karl Marx, Paul Farmer, Philippe Bourgois, Paul Willis and Pierre Bourdieu. My study focused on one local area: Wayne County Ohio. I interviewed six professionals in this field and discovered that there is a disconnect between federal policies and on the ground implementation. I also found that within this smaller community workers have found great ways to counteract the strain put on them by the Child Welfare System
2014_SOAN_05376033.pdf	2014	This study examines the social construction of black single motherhood and the stigma and stereotypes that are associated with the category. Interviews were held with an urban sample of six single black mothers from Atlanta, Georgia. The participants provided their own perspective and opinions on the phenomena and themes were able to develop. The categories that the themes are under are: Defining Single Mothers; How Mothers Become Single Mothers; Consequences/Challenges for a single Mother; Stereotypes/Stigma of Black Single Mothers. Through the interviews and themes this study was able to provide a better understanding of the construction of single black mothers. The theories that are featured in this study is symbolic interaction, stigma, deviance, moral panics, the looking-glass self, and feminist theory. The literatures featured in this study are broken down into three sections: (1) Differences in sexuality; (2) Images/stereotypes of black single mothers; (3) Perceptions of marriage of single black mothers.
2013_SOAN_05376746.pdf	2013	This research project examines people’s private life/work life balance, and how classifications race, marital, and gender contribute to the differences in people’s balance of the two worlds. I hypothesized that many people would feel an imbalance mainly because of demands from work. By surveying people randomly in a large city, I found that gender, racial, and marital classifications yielded the largest differences in how people perceived their own balance of work and private life.
2014_SOAN_05376901.pdf	2014	This thesis explores specifically how blackness, gender, poverty, and location have had fundamental and rudimentary effects on the prospect and direction of my brother’s and my educational experiences. I argue that the American Educational system methodically privileges some people while hindering others; I examine privilege comparatively within my brother’s and my educational experiences. I conducted oral histories with my brother, my parents, and an older sibling to triangulate our educational experiences. I analyze our experiences and find that my brother’s and my experiences regardless of access to similar resources our experience varied greatly due to circumstantial social perceptions. This thesis examines educational experiences from individualized standpoints within Jefferson County Public Schools, this perspective allows for both a thorough and tangible analysis of how the construction of the education system guides students toward and away from educational success.
2014_SOAN_05378126.pdf	2014	This paper aims to show the insights of multiracial and/or transnational people who are positioned between multiple communities and geographies. These people may feel that they are unable to embody “authentic” or “pure” categorizations of race and ethnicity, but this paper argues that those categories were never “pure” to begin with—but rather hybrid and evolving, and forever contending with hegemonic national narratives. The concept of diaspora is used to compare the construction of American racial and ethnic categories, with the black Atlantic diaspora and the Iranian diaspora as a basis for comparison. This paper argues that anthropologists of color have offered insightful methodologies for excavating multiple narratives of people between communities. 19 student respondents of various heritages—whether South Asian, East Asian, Caribbean, African, European, or black American, many of whom are also biracial—share their experiences as people straddling multiple communities. They articulate an awareness of the fluid nature of how people categorize them, the ways in which their racial and ethnic authenticity is challenged, what they embrace from their communities, and finally, the insights and critiques they bring to American social frameworks and the construction of group identities.
2014_SOAN_05385600.pdf	2014	This Independent Study explores the laws of censorship in Spain and America and the effect they have on each country’s daily culture. The history behind each country’s censorship laws began in the 1940s, with the boom of radio, television, and film. During the rise in popularity of the media, Americans were dealing with McCarthyism and Spain was deep into Franco’s reign, but each country eventually found freedom from their initial incredibly strict censorship laws. While studying abroad in Spain, my passion for film led me to ask the question of how the censorship of films could be so different, yet so similar, in each culture. My study analyzes American and Spanish students’ reactions to different popular Spanish and American film clips. I find that reactions to each clip vary depending on the content, but that American student’s reactions are different from Spanish reactions. Movies are drastically important in a society because as we shape films, films, in turn, shape us.
2014_SOAN_05442510.pdf	2014	The purpose of this Independent Study thesis is to examine what type of affect, if any, certain religious and social institutions have on people’s decisions to donate their organs. The religious institutions focused on for the purpose of the study are Catholicism, Protestantism, Islam, Buddhism, and Judaism. Aside from a review of literature, original data collected through interviewing is used to support my arguments and make a conclusion regarding my research. All of this data has been analyzed comparatively and theoretically, which is a new type of scholarly contribution to this topic of research. None of the religions I’ve researched forbid or have substantial negative connotations geared towards individuals making judgments concerning organ donation. However, a systematic approach has been more or less created, with hopes of ultimately creating a larger donor registry within the United Kingdom, as a result of this, biopower is prevalent within the British donor system. The results of this study provide insight as to how the institution of both religion and state can factor into a system of organ donation.
1998_SOAN_05484802.pdf	1998	"In this study I examine the portrayal of masculinity in a popular American sitcom, Seinfeld. The study encompasses three main areas of research: humor, masculinity, and the mass media. Past literature and various theories in each area generate a series of important axioms: humor often contains contradictory layers of meaning, so that it both criticizes and reaffirms cultural norms; masculinity is a social construct and is often portrayed in the media utilizing the technique of contrasting masculinities; messages in the mass media hold a great deal of sway over audiences, but one must acknowledge the powers of interpretation that all individuals also possess. My research design was twofold: first, I conducted a ""deep"" textual analysis of the content of Seinfeld; second, a group of individuals watched various clips of Seinfeld and responded to questions regarding the themes on the show. Between my own analysis and that ofthe respondents, a variety of interpretations were discovered. On the surface, Seinfeld seems to display a fairly traditional masculinity where men are obsessed with sex and averse to both commitment and any display of femininity. As more layers of meaning are uncovered, however, a different theme emerges: Seinfeld is in fact pointing out that masculinity in our society is an ideal state consisting of stringent norms that few, if any, men can actually fulfill."
1999_SOAN_05484818.pdf	1999	This study examined the differences in body image satisfaction among kindergarten and third grade students. The subjects answered five questions that asked the students to choose body figures. Additionally, they were asked two questions verbally pertaining to their body satisfaction. This test was administered individually by myself in the back of the classrooms. It was hypothesized that third grade girls would have a higher prevalence of body image problems than kindergarten girls and that third graders, overall, would experience body image dissatisfaction more so than kindergarten students. It was predicted that girls would show higher dissatisfaction of body image than boys; also, there would be no significant findings when comparing only the boys in the study. The results showed that there were significant findings concerning body image when comparing third grade and kindergarten students and when comparing the girls in the two grades. There were no significant findings when comparing the sexes and only boys. Future research is suggested, focusing on the prevalence of body image in both boys and girls starting as young as kindergarten. More emphasis might be placed on the different societal factors, such as education, family, religion, class and race, that are involved in forming body image perceptions in preadolescent children.
1999_SOAN_05484840.pdf	1999	"In this study, I use content analysis to look at changes that have occurred over time in a selection of fairy tales. The tales I use for this study are ""Cinderella,"" ""Snow White,"" ""Hansel and Gretel,"" ""Rapunzel,"" ""Sleeping Beauty,"" and ""Rumpelstiltskin."" In Chapter I, I define ""folklore"" and ""fairy tale."" Then I look at the Grimms' background and their collection of the fairy tales during the 19th century. I discuss their background, and motivations that they had to collect fairy tales. Then I look at controversy surrounding the Grimms' methods. In Chapter II, I discuss rationalism, psychoanalysis, Marxism, functionalism, feminist theory, and structuralism, which have all been applied to fairy tales in many sources. In Chapter III, I discuss content analysis, and the categories that I created in order to conduct the analysis. The categories are based on oppositions that were repeated in all of the stories. In Chapter IV, I discuss the data that was presented in the previous chapter. In my discussion, I apply the theories discussed in Chapter II to the three versions of the stories. I look at historical aspects in the different time periods. For example, I look at changes in ideology, ideal types, and morals. What I find is that the categories are present in all of the versions. However, the importance of the categories, like beauty and wealth, have changed over time."
1999_SOAN_05484856.pdf	1999	This study looks closely at the relationship between women who are employed and women who make a living as homemakers and their levels of self-esteem. The data in this study was collected through General Social Survey which was taken from NORC, National Opinion Research Center, at the University of Chicago in 1996. There were a total of 1,619 women, 1,272 of which were caucasian, 270 who were African-American, and 77 women of other ethnic backgrounds. After careful selection of appropriate survey questions, the data was placed into the program SPSS where some variables were recoded and run using the chi square test. The dependent variable, self-esteem, was compiled of particular measurements such as, feelings of control over their life, belief that most of the bad things that happen to them are due to bad luck not something they did, belief that the good things in their life are due to good luck, and that they have no particular plan in life. The results showed employed women to have higher levels of selfesteem than homemakers except when these women had three or more children. Both homemakers and paid women reported high levels of selfesteem when the family income was $30,000 or greater. Social activity also raised women's self-esteem, but more so for employed women than homemakers. The results showed that homemaker's self-esteem was lowered if their mother worked outside the home, this variable did not effect employed women's self-esteem. Employed women experienced higher levels of self-esteem if they felt successful in their family life.
1994_SOAN_05509325.pdf	1994	This study examines the nature of early parenthood and adolescent pregnancy in the inner cities of the United States. Twelve children from the fifth grades of an inner city school and twelve children from the fourth, fifth , and sixth grades of a local, rural school were interviewed to determine their perspective on parenthood. Questions were designed to ascertain whether or not bearing a child is considered to be a rite of passage in the inner city. Rites of passage are one type of ritual symbol that serves to transmit values and norms of a culture to its members. Based upon the children's responses, it can be seen that there is evidence to support this hypothesis. Many children drew the parallel between adulthood and parenthood. Recommendations are made based on the data to aid educators to more effectively encourage delayed parenthood and prevent adolescent pregnancy among those children who do not wish to become pregnant.
1994_SOAN_05509326.pdf	1994	This thesis explores transvestism, a natural phenomenon that is little known and commonly misunderstood by most of society. Transvestism, the condition in which a biological male dresses as a female, is often related with homosexuality, illness and perversion. The first purpose of this paper is to clarify certain misconceptions about transvestism while explaining its nature and causes. To do this, it is necessary to recount the history of transvestism and to look at the various speculative theories that have been used to explain transvestism. Theories of deviant behavior and labeling are explored as most relevant to this recognized medical condition. The second purpose of this paper is to explore the ways in which society views transvestism in response to how the media portrays it. A study group was arranged in order to test the hypothesis that the media instigates ideas about transvestism through certain images that are portrayed in specific films. The results of this study suggest that the media has had a more negative than positive influence on a selected group of viewers when determining attitudes towards transvestism. The importance of this paper is to inform readers about the facts pertaining to transvestism and to look at the different theories surrounding it. Through the research conducted in this paper a better understanding can be reached about transvestism and the effects that the media has on this social phenomenon.
1994_SOAN_05509329.pdf	1994	This thesis explores the realities of prenatal care use among low-income, inner-city black women. The sudden nationwide awareness of the problems of health care for women makes the study very important. The purpose of this study is to examine, in a a qualitative manner, the views and attitudes of poor, urban women concerning their own prenatal care awareness and use. Data was gathered during an approximately one hour interview with ten women. During the interview, respondents were questioned in detail about their own prenatal care and any barriers deterring them from obtaining it. As a result of the study, it can be concluded that the use of prenatal care is linked closely with the attitudes and personality of the women as well as any constraints to health care due to poverty. Poverty is what stimulates these women to take care of themselves or deal with each struggle they must face in the best way they know possible. Further research concerning prenatal care for women in poverty will be necessary until black infants stop dying at twice the rate of whites and the Infant Mortality Rate of the United States drops considerably. More in-depth qualitative studies need to follow in the future. Longitudinal studies following an established number of women through each of their pregnancies and lifestyle changes can help us achieve better prenatal care and healthier babies.
1994_SOAN_05509333.pdf	1994	This thesis explores the relationship between college students' attitudes about premarital sex and their gender, race, socioeconomic status, and religiosity. College students' knowledge about AIDS risk behaviors, perceptions of AIDS, and the effects of those on their attitudes about premarital sex are also examined. This study was accomplished by distributing questionnaires, which measured attitudes about premarital sex, gender, race, socioeconomic status, religiosity, knowledge of AIDS risk behaviors, perceptions of AIDS, and the effects of those on attitudes about premarital sex, to 300 college students at The College of Wooster. A 30 percent return rate was received. Results showed that relationships between college students' attitudes about premarital sex and gender, race, and socioeconomic status did not exist. A moderate relationship between religiosity and attitudes about male premarital sex and a significant relationship between religiosity and attitudes about female premarital sex was indicated. Results also showed that adequate knowledge of AIDS risk behaviors and the perception of AIDS as a very serious disease did not affect attitudes about premarital sex. Because the risk of contracting HIV is rapidly growing for young adults, future research is suggested to determine ways of stopping the spread of AIDS within the adolescent and young adult populations in the United States.
1994_SOAN_05509335.pdf	1994	This thesis investigates the study of folklore in a number of ways. First and foremost, it is a collection of some of the folklore of the Wayne and Holmes county, Ohio area. In addition, this thesis seeks to uncover patterns concerning the inheritance of oral folk traditions. To accomplish this goal qualitative data gathered during the fall and winter of 1993 has been translated directly from oral discourse to written text for preservation. The study draws on theories which discuss societal change, and seeks to explain alterations in or loss of folklore due to these changes. This study reveals that folklore does indeed suffer alterations due to displacement and replacement, thus justifying the importance of transferring oral traditions to written text for preservation.
1994_SOAN_05509336.pdf	1994	"This thesis explores the contributing factors that affect the rates of assimilation in contemporary Jewry. I have reviewed extensive literature on American Jewish history and assimilation and have interviewed ten American Jews on their views of assimilation and related topics. Results showed that there is a wide range of opinion on assimilation, and American Jewry is, since the first generation of immigrants to this country in the early twentieth century, progressively getting less in touch with its religious and/or ethnic heritage's. The main result is that American Jews, and in particular members of the younger generation, are assimilating more into the dominant White AngloSaxon Protestant culture. Also, there is a large discrepancy between the views of the older versus the younger generation; the younger being proportionately more ""liberal' and the older generation being more ""conservative"" when it comes to accepting assimilation, intermarriage, not attending synagogue, etc. support the idea that Judaism has evolved and adapted to modern conditions necessitating a new definition of what it means to be ""Jewish."" This development is free of value judgments. It is neither in itself good or bad. Rather, assimilation is a necessary and irreversible process. This is not to say that Judaism will diminish in importance or disappear. Like the Jewish people, the Jewish religion will change but will always have adherents for whom the religion will fulfill a significant function."
1994_SOAN_05509338.pdf	1994	This thesis explores datillg and marriage, how datillg leads to marriage, and the ideals and illfluences pertammg to datillg and marriage from the perspective of current College of Wooster students and alumni sillce 1973 that are married to one another. The students provide the current College of Wooster perspective on datillg and their outlook toward marriage. The alumni provide the perspective on marriage and their look back on dating. Together the populations display the changillg patterns ill datillg and marriage. This study was conducted by distribution of surveys which asked open-ended questions on dating and marriage. The surveys were distributed to 50 students and 50 alumni. Results showed that both populations believe that datillg and marriage are connected and that each process illvolves stages of progression ill the illtensity of the relationships. The relationships illvolve specific characteristics of each partner ill each process ill order to make it successful as well as illcorporatillg the illfluences that determille what dating and marriage are for both of these populations. In conclusion, future research is discussed to determine how this study could be replicated.
1994_SOAN_05509341.pdf	1994	This thesis explores definitions of health, illness and healing among members of the First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Wooster, Ohio. Having found previous literature on Christian Science lacking in ethnographic description, participant observation was conducted at 19 church services between September and December of 1993. In addition, I completed six open-ended interviews with members of the church in November and December of 1993. Results showed that Christian Scientists reject illness as a reality, blame their own faulty thinking as the source of illness, and define health in terms of having peace of mind, living harmoniously and thinking in line with God. These concepts are based on the Biblical idea that people were made in the image and likeness of God and are, therefore, perfectly spiritual like God. These beliefs and other aspects of Christian Science are examined through feminist and ethnomedical studies. Further research might include an exploration of concepts such as death, immortality, and gender roles in the church.
1994_SOAN_05509342.pdf	1994	This study examines the nature of early parenthood and adolescent pregnancy in the inner cities of the United States. Twelve children from the fifth grades of an inner city school and twelve children from the fourth, fifth , and sixth grades of a local, rural school were interviewed to determine their perspective on parenthood. Questions were designed to ascertain whether or not bearing a child is considered to be a rite of passage in the inner city. Rites of passage are one type of ritual symbol that serves to transmit values and norms of a culture to its members. Based upon the children's responses, it can be seen that there is evidence to support this hypothesis. Many children drew the parallel between adulthood and parenthood. Recommendations are made based on the data to aid educators to more effectively encourage delayed parenthood and prevent adolescent pregnancy among those children who do not wish to become pregnant.
1994_SOAN_05509346.pdf	1994	This thesis examines stereotypes based on particular clothing styles at the College of Wooster campus. It is focused on Anglo-American's interpretations of others' social identity and roles at the campus when only dress is accounted for. The review of literature explores this topic by suggesting three sub-sections (clothing as communication, social determinants of clothing, and clothing and college students) as elements in understanding the place clothing serves in our culture. Stereotypes are presented as hastily drawn but powerful tools in human interactions. The survey, performed by 43 students on campus, shows that clothing styles do indeed manifest stereotypes about the wearer while the stereotyper shows great hesitation in being labeled themselves. The thesis shows that clothing groups originate from base clothing items and that all of the top 5 groups stem off this core set of clothing articles. The results from the survey, along with the literature and theory review, suggest that clothing styles do exhibit group identity, while the individual holds on to personal identity. Future research is suggested, to elaborate on this topic and to open it to a wider population. Gender and socio-economic status were not fully explored and may be pertinent in further investigations.
1994_SOAN_05509351.pdf	1994	This sociological study combines existing literature, theory, and quantitative and qualitative research on the various ways learning disabled college students respond to labeling. In particular, this thesis examined how learning disabled college students at the College of Wooster respond to negative labeling and stigmatization and how negative labeling and stigmatization affect students' self-esteem, acceptance of learning disabilities, and locus of control. This prospectus includes the methodology and results of the quantitative data analysis measuring self-esteem, acceptance of learning disability, and locus of control of thirty learning disabled college students, fifteen qualitative interviews of undergraduate learning disabled students, and a personal autobiography of a College of Wooster learning disabled college student Lastly, this research project explains the results of the various types of sociological research utilized in this project and offers additional suggestions for future research studying how learning disabled college students respond to negative labeling and stigmatization.
1994_SOAN_05509352.pdf	1994	This thesis explores the relationship between types of music and selected attitudes of college students. The study focused on thirty-nine college students responses to an attitudes survey measuring levels of aggression, feminism, and eroticism. The symbolic interaction theory, the social learning theory, and the excitation theory were utilized to discuss the use and influence of music on youth. The results found no significant relationship between listening to heavy metal music and aggressive and anti-feminist attitudes. However, a significant relationship was discovered between heavy metal music and attitudes toward eroticism. The results on the comparison between African-Americans who prefer rap music to Caucasians who prefer rap music, surprisingly found no significant difference since rap is considered to be music of the Mrican-American culture. This finding assumed to be caused by the low sample which was used for this study. In suggestion of future research, larger samples of population might be an idea to take into consideration. A sample of college students at a large state school is also suggested in order to obtain more conclusive results.
1994_SOAN_05509355.pdf	1994	This senior independent study thesis will examine how HIV I AIDS, as a disease, acts as a stimulus for change within Nepalese society. I have focused on two groups of prostitute women in the south western, Terai region of Nepal whose communities I observed in the Spring of 1993. By examining the traditional role of Badi and Deuki women in the larger context of Hindu, Nepalese society, I am able to determine how AIDS can and will alter the behavior of these groups, and eventually their constructs and conceptualizations of sex, sexuality and disease. I have used an ethnographic approach to establish a picture of Nepalese society, and the social structure of which the Badi and Deuki are a functioning part. Theories of structural functionalism and risk behavior are used to determine how and why prostitute women in Nepal will shift their risk behavior with the introduction of the AIDS epidemic to Nepalese society. Development of the structure of Nepalese society and the specific functioning of Badi and Deuki in Nepal is accomplished through the presentation of Nepalese ethnicity, geography, history and religious belief in the literature review. I have used a descriptive method for presentation of data collected at three Badi communities and two Deuki households in far western Nepal. This data was acquired through qualitative study of the five sights and limited interaction with individual members. In conclusion, I have determined through comparative analysis of the data, that AIDS does and will continue to stimulate change of high risk behavior among Badi and Deuki prostitutes in Nepal.
1994_SOAN_05509360.pdf	1994	This study examines the relationship of socialization towards the censorship of music. Specifically how individuals come to support the censorship of music due to societal group memberships. It focuses on those reference groups which support the censorship of music. Analysis of subjects' social backgrounds and attitudes towards censorship tested for several hypotheses relating to the censorship of music. Data was collected through a survey questionnaire distributed to College of Wooster students. The variables religiosity, exposure to music, and race were examined using a T-test. Economic status was tested using a oneway analysis of variance test. The results show religiosity, economic status, and exposure were found not to be significant in affecting an individual's attitudes towards the censorship of music. Race was found to be significant in predicting an individual's attitudes. These results illustrate both a positive and negative correlation between social background and attitudes towards the censorship of music.
1994_SOAN_05509362.pdf	1994	This study considers the effects of partnerships in education upon student achievement and ultimately their quality of education. Background literature provides a history of the origins and general purpose of partnerships as well as examples of partnerships active in schools today. The literature separates partnerships into three categories and describes characteristics of each: one business/many schools, one business/one district, and one business/one school Supporting theories include concepts of functionalism, conflict theory , and symbolic interactionism which illustrate the partnership relationship reflecting upon both a broader perspectives as well as upon individual relationships. Methodology includes an investigation of the third type of partnerships through interviews conducted with representatives of three partnership projects within the Baltimore City Public Schools. Results indicate that partnership programs within the study population may have positive effect; upon student academic achievement and the quality of their education, according to informal evaluations by principals. However, no formal evaluations have heen conducted hy professional evaluation research teams. A sample schedule of interview questions is presented which may he utilized for future evaluations as well as suggestions for evaluation designs to which the interview schedule might be applied. Future research suggested includes other areas of community involvement as well more detailed investigations as to the nature of the success of specific partnerships.
1994_SOAN_05509363.pdf	1994	This thesis examines Tuberculosis as a symptom of poverty in Ecuador. A historical examination of the socio-political and economic forces that effect the state of the indigenous populations of highland Ecuador reflect the social problems that perputuate the Tuberculosis epedemic. The cycle of dependency and marginalization of the Ecuadorian Indian are perpetuated at the local, state and international level within the context of a world capitalist economy. The standard of living resulting from development initiatives defined by western economics and medicine do not address the social causes of Tuberculosis but rather deal with them as they relate to their own concerns. An ethnographic study of the Hospital Nuemologico in Cuenca, Ecuador (hereafter referred to as the LEA) reports the micro level situation of Tuberculosis prevention and treatment. This data is examined within the macro level forces effecting the phenomena. The Tuberculosis epedemic in Eucador must be addressed within the dialectic of the micro and macro level, political-economic forces effecting it within a world economic system.
1994_SOAN_05509366.pdf	1994	This thesis explores gated communities in the United States. Two hundred and seventy questionnaires were sent to residents of a gated community in Williamsburg, Virginia to fmd out more about their perceptions of the community and their reasons for moving there. The study also attempted to compare the residents of the community with the typical stereotype of gated developments. As there has been virtually no research conducted on this topic, this was largely an exploratory study. I examined scholarly work on suburbia and community planning and relied on popular literature articles for information about the actual phenomenon. Theories of Karl Marx and Max Weber on class, status, and exclusivity and were discussed and used to analyze the findings of the study, as were urban theories by Georg Simrnel and Louis Wirth. Results illustrated that the stereotypes of these communities have been largely misdirected. The development that I proflled was quite heterogeneous in terms of age, income distribution, level of education, occupational prestige, and class status. Residents had widely different motivations for moving into the community and had a variety of interests, both inside and outside the community. However, pattems emerged in an investigation of the factors which contributed to a feeling of acceptance into the community. Occupational prestige, level of education, and age were not shown to influence whether or not the respondent felt a sense of community among the residents in the development, while social class was significantly correlated. Similarly, occupational prestige was shown to be related to feeling that other residents of the community were snobbish, while age, level of education, and income were not.
1995_SOAN_05509369.pdf	1995	This thesis examines the affect of culture on the symptomology, etiology, beliefs about casuality, diagnosis and treatment of mental illness. Mentally ill persons (MIP) are the only individuals who's illness is defined by cultural and social norms. The persistent violation of these norms is the basis for the diagnosis of mental illness. This study seeks to explain the variation that culture creates in the manifestation of mental illness. The diagnostic categories of appearance and behavior, speech and thought patter, thought content, cognition, mood and affect and judgment and insight are analyzed utilizing an cultural standpoint. The typical diagnosis of patients is based on these specific categories therefore if culture can be demonstrated to effect each this would warrant the inclusion of culture in diagnostic processes.
1995_SOAN_05509370.pdf	1995	This thesis explores juvenile delinquency in a variety of ways. First, it looks at the causes and theories regarding delinquency then at those young people who are committing crimes in our neighborhoods every day. In addition, this thesis examines the current diversion programs, found in counties in Ohio, whose primary goals are to deter juveniles from the court system and at the same time rehabilitate them. To fully understand these programs and their success, data was compiled from interviews held with officers of the court and questionnaires that were received from various juvenile justice systems across the state of Ohio. The information revealed patterns and relationships between variables were discovered. Finally, this thesis offers Wayne county a proposal with recommendations and guidelines to implement a diversion program within their justice system.
1995_SOAN_05509372.pdf	1995	This study examines the differences in attitudes toward capital punishment among the black and white populations of the United States. I feel that black's are more inclined to oppose the death penalty than are whites. Likewise, white's are more prone to favor the death penalty than are blacks. The review of literature contains studies that discuss the death penalty and variables that can contribute to a person's belief toward such a punishment. Each of the studies examines one of more possible reasons as to why there exists such a gap in attitudes among the American population, most specifically between blacks and whites. These studies suggest that race is not the only factor in determining an individual's attitude. Instead, the combination of race, education, knowledge of the death penalty, income, the fear of victimization, sex, myths toward aggression, the belief that a more severe crime deserves a more severe punishment, and religion, all account for a persons' position on such an issue. Therefore I also look into some of these variables mentioned. I feel that the higher income one earns, the more likely he/she will be to favor the death penalty, the more education one has, the more likely he/she will be to oppose such an act, religion and the religiosity (attendance of church and strength in faith) one is, the more likely he/she will be to oppose it, males are more likely to favor the death penalty than are females, and finally, the more aggressive one is, the more likely that he/she will be to favor capital punishment. I also feel that the more one has been victimized, the more lively he/she will be to favor such a punishment. This study also includes theories that can explain why these differences occur: structural functionalism theory, conflict theory, and the internal colonial model of race relations. The methods discussed in the study are retrieved from the already existing data obtained by NORC (National Opinion Research Center). Although I do not examine all the variables mentioned in the literature chapter, the results chapter displays my findings for the variables I was able to test. Finally the discussion chapter analyzes these findings and compares them with the theories presented and previous studies conducted. My results section suggests that blacks do in fact oppose the death penalty more so than do whites. I also found that Protestants favored capital punishment slightly more so than did Catholic's. However, Protestants an Catholics generally favored the death penalty much more than Jew's, those who claimed to be non-religious and those who were neither Catholic or Protestant. Those who attended religious service twice a year or less were more likely to favor capital punishment than those who attended more frequently. Likewise, those claiming not to have a strong faith, favored the death penalty more so than those who claimed to have a strong faith. Victimization had a small significance in people's attitudes; those who feared victimization were slightly less likely to support capital punishment those who did not. I also found that males supported its use more than did females and those who had less than a high school degree supported capital punishment far more than did those with graduate degree's. Finally, those who were more aggressive tended to show support for capital punishment more so than those who were not.
1995_SOAN_05509374.pdf	1995	This thesis explore unemployment rates, poverty rates and race as possible determinants of crime in 100 U.S. cities varying in size and population composition. Unemployment rates for the city as a whole and for blacks, in particular, were used along with raw numbers of all individuals unemployed as predictors of crime rates. Poverty rates of different populationsn were also used. Race, as a variable, was used as a third major predictor, measuerd by the total number of black female headed households. Data on (1) unemployment, (2) poverty and (3) race were gathered from the 1990 Census. The crimes being examined include robbery, larceny and murder. FBI arrest rate data were used to determine the number of arrests made for each crime. Previous studies containing the elements of unemployment, poverty and race are mixed in their results. Anomie/strain theory and control theory are used to provide a theoretical perspective to explain the relationships which occur between the bariables. Data from frequencies, a zero-order Person' correlation and multiple regressions were gathered in order to determine the relationship, if any, between the independent variables of unemployment, poverty and race and the dependent variables of arrest rates for murder, larceny and robbery. The arrest rate for larceny was shown to be positively correlated with the percent of blacks living in poverty (Sig .0475). Significant inverse zero-order relationships existed between the arrest rates for larceny and the total number of unemployed individuals (Sig .021) and the toal population of blacks within the city (Sig .011). Robbery was also shown to have a somewhat significant inverse correlation with the percentage of black female headed households (Sig .0635). These relationships are discussed in the following text.
1995_SOAN_05509378.pdf	1995	This thesis explores the effects that new sports facilities in a downtown area have on the surrounding city, using Cleveland's Gateway complex as a case study. In this study a total of six people from the area were interviewed on the possible impacts that the complex had on the community. Results of the study were mixed, and no definite conclusions could be drawn. However, the study did provide excellent insight into the views that people had of the project. More research is suggested, especially with a focus on possible ways of making the research more reliable.
1995_SOAN_05509381.pdf	1995	This thesis examines gender differences in children's play and the possible implications of these differences. This data consists of interviews and extended observations of boys and girls playing the game of foursquare during recess at an elementary school in a small city in the Midwest. Utilizing theories of the socialization of play, and of gender differences in friendly conversation, the findings show that there are differences in the play of boys and girls in their perceptions of competition and personal ability. However, it also shows that there are many similarities in areas such as whom the children like to play with, and the actual moves the children use, and their persistence to stay in the game.
1995_SOAN_05509383.pdf	1995	This study explores how the concept of wife abuse is culturally constructed through an examination of two battered women's shelters, one in the United States and one in Ecuador. In contrast to most of the literature on domestic violence which evaluates wife abuse as an individual pathology or the result of a particular set of social variables, this study focuses on how the concept of domestic violence is problematized in the United States and Ecuador. Drawing on di Leonardo's perspective of feminist anthropology, this study looks at how particular cultural, political and economic contexts shape the perceived meaning of domestic violence and the nature of the shelters' responses to it. Qualitative data gathered in San Rafael, Ecuador in the spring of 1994 and Wooster, Ohio in the fall of 1994 includes formal documents, transcripts of interviews with shelter board, staff, and clients and observations made during the four months of field work in each shelter. The findings reveal that batered women's shelters are a Western cultural form and to a certain extent, the shelters' broadly share similar characterists such as shelter structure and counseling services. Yet the specific assumptions that the women and staff of the respective institutions make concerning the shelter client's identity, expectations for the clients after they leave the shelter, and appropriate ways of child discipline reflect the cultural milieu in which the shelters are situated. This study suggests that battered women's shelters operate under notions of domestic violence that are shaped by each shelters' cultural setting.
1995_SOAN_05509387.pdf	1995	This thesis explores the controversial issue of gun control in the United States of America, focusing on the best predictors of attitudes toward gun control. The concerns created by firearms has caused the majority of American citizens to favor laws which would regulate the legal sale of guns. Although most people agree that gun control laws should be enforced, there are still people that oppose gun control. After using variables from the General Social Survey and software from the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences, the variables of owning a gun, sex, hunting, and religion were found to have the most effect on attitudes toward gun control. Males that own a gun, are Protestant, and go hunting were found to oppose gun control most frequently. Together these variables create an image of a rugged man from the frontier days when carrying and using firearms were a normal part of life.
1995_SOAN_05509389.pdf	1995	This thesis explores the practices of physicians in Wayne, Holmes, and Stark counties to determine whether or not they are incorporating alternative therapies into their practices to create a more holistic approach to health care. This study was accomplished in two stages. The first stage was the distribution of questionnaires to all of the physicians in Wayne, Holmes and Stark counties (156 physicians). The questionnaires included information on the physicians, their practices, the techniques they incorporate, their patient practitioner relationships and their personal beliefs and experiences. Eight-five physicians returned the survey for a response rate of 54%. The second part of the research involved interviewing nine of the physicians who responded to the survey, in order to add a personal perspective to the questionnaire. The results showed that many of the physicians incorporate methods of holistic treatment into their practices. The general frequency of use of alternative medical treatments was low. There was a higher rate in the use of alternative therapies, in the category of physicians who classified their practices as holistic. Very few studies have been done on alternative medicine in the United States. There is a great deal of opportunity for future research into alternative and holistic medicine.
1995_SOAN_05509391.pdf	1995	This thesis explores the effect of parental divorce on young adults' attitudes toward marriage and relationships. In-depth interviews were conduscted with 20 Caucasian students at the College of Wooster, half of whom came from intact families and half of whom had divorced parents. The interviewees were questioned about family background, relationship history, attitudes toward those relationships and expectations with regards to relationships and marriage. Results show that there is not a direct relationship between parental divorce and attitudes toward marriage and relationships. Future research is suggested, including a larger, and more diverse sample that differ along the lines of religion, socio-economic class, and geographical region.
1995_SOAN_05509392.pdf	1995	This thesis explores the effects of part-time employment on urban public high school students' self-esteem using a cross-sectional design. The current literature on high school students' employment is explored through summary statements and discussion that presents the division of opinion on the actual effects, both positive and negative, of employment on self-esteem. An analysis of symbolic interactionist theory uses the identity theory as a basis for the importance of work in a student's life. The sample consists of 180 junior and senior-year students from a public high school in the northeast region of the United States. The questionnaires, which were distributed by hand, measured a) self-reported information on school activities; b) questions about different aspects of employment experience if applicable; c) two self-esteem scales; and d) demographic information. The Thomas-Zander Ego Strength Scale and the Janis-Field Feelings of Inadequacy Scale were used to operationalize self-esteem. The grade point average is indicative of self-esteem scores in addition to race and range of responsibility on the job. Other findings of the thesis proved that controlled student employment does have a positive effect on self-esteem.
1995_SOAN_05509394.pdf	1995	This thesis examines the relationship between males and females, and the content of television commercials, by suggesting three things. It suggests that men and women will be shown in traditional American gender roles, and these gender roles will be different for each sex. Secondly it suggests that women will be shown with more frequency than men will be in the television commercials. Lastly it suggests that women will be shown as adhering to the ideal body image, while men will not. This will be done by using a content analysis methodology. The television commercials, totaling 587, were recorded, coded, and analyzed. The commercials were analyzed using the variables of characters, primary visual character, role, appearance, product, setting, primary narrator, and relationship, in order to determine the content of the commercials. Significance levels were determined using chi-square and gamma. Results showed that there is a significant relationship between television commercials content, and the portrayal of males and females. Future research is suggested, that will focus on the effects of television commercials content, on males and females.
1995_SOAN_05509396.pdf	1995	This thesis explores the latent effects of paraental alcoholism on adult children. While much literature has been reviewed examining the overall effects of parental alcoholism on adult children, this thesis focuses on a few important variables specifically self-esteem, achievement, gender, counseling and family dysfunctions. There are several theories that can help to explain why ACOAs may suffer from latent effects of parental alcoholism, one theory being symbolic interactionism. The theories are addressed in the thesis and examined specifically in relation to ACOAs. The testing procedure consisted of a short questionnaire that I distributed to about five-hundred College of Wooster students. The return rate was high enough to run significant computer tests on the outcomes of the surveys. My hypotheses were very specific in relation to the variables I found to be most important after studying the literature. Females will suffer from a lower self-esteem level and males will suffer from a lower achievement level. The intervening variables are counseling and other family dysfunctions which may affect the level of self-esteem and achievement problems the ACOAs suffer. My hypotheses were found to be true in relation to the ACOA and non-ACOA subjects that I studied on the college campus.
1995_SOAN_05509398.pdf	1995	A growing number of women are coming out of the business roles that they have traditionally occupied, such as retail, sales and services positions, and are instead entering positions of higher authority. In the past few decades there has been a steady increase in the number of women business executives and owners. The purpose of this study is to investigate women who own businesses, and to find out what problems they have encountered in both their previous and present employment, to find out if it is a response to difficulties in the workplace. This study is important because many women have wanted to go into business for themselves but have found it difficult due to several factors, such as gender stereotyping. This may be a reason for women staying in their traditional roles as secretaries and employees, and not taking the initiative to rise to higher roles of authority. Has there been any past discrimination against women in business? If there has been, does this discrimination explain why women are taking the risks of self employment? This study examines women-owned businesses to find out who these women are, and what their experiences include, to determine whether the literature explains a relationship between past discrimination and present entrepreneurial risk taking.
1995_SOAN_05509399.pdf	1995	This paper examines dating violence and whether a relationship exists between it and the self-esteem of the woman. A sample of heterosexual college women in violent dating relationships has been examined for the qualitative and quantitative aspect of this study; further data on dating violence upon college women and their social interaction along with the self-esteem of the woman has been collected through journals, news articles, books, and other literature. Support through the selected theories, has shown relation between dating violence and its affects on the social interaction and self-esteem. Those theories, such as, Generational Theory of Violence, Social Learning Theory, and the Symbolic Interaction Theory, have all contributed to this study's findings and may aid in deducting whether the relationship may exist between social interaction and the self-esteem of woman on college campuses and dating violence; as well as, understanding what may be its cause. Thus far, social interaction and self-esteem not only has relation with dating violence, but may be a preceding variable within a cycle of violence.
1995_SOAN_05509403.pdf	1995	This study examines if maltreaters are more likely than non-maltreaters to have histories of maltreatment, to have inappropriate expectations of their children, to be isolated from support networks, to experience great amounts of stress, and to have inabilities in handling stress appropriately. This was done by distributing questionnaires to 43 participants of Children Services of Wayne County's parenting classes. Results indicated that maltreaters are no more likely than non-maltreaters to have histories of child maltreatment, inappropriate expectations of their children, to be isolated form support networks, to experience great amounts of stress, and to handle their stress appropriately. They also found the variables history of maltreatment, expectations of children, isolation from support networks, stress, and stress handling to be insignificant predictors of maltreater status. Future research is suggested, focusing on the continuing of this study over a longer period of time in order to obtain a larger sample.
1995_SOAN_05509408.pdf	1995	"This thesis looks at gender role stereotyping in children's literature and how those stereotypes may be transferred to students from books and teachers reading books during story-time. It specifically explores how teacher-student interactions during story-time may teach students to ""abide by"" the traditional/stereotypical gender roles presented in the books and by the teacher. This is accomplished by using social learning theory and symbolic interaction theory to explain how children learn about gender roles and what role story-time interactions between students and teacher play in children's gender knowledge development. Story-time observations in four different classrooms and interviews with the teachers were conducted and analyzed. Results showed that the teachers have stereotypical views and beliefs concerning gender roles and that they in effect, however unintentionally, transfer those beliefs to their students during story-time. Other patterns, including students beliefs and teaching methods/interaction techniques are discussed. Further research is suggested, with recommendations of using a larger sample and doing a longitudinal study."
1995_SOAN_05509411.pdf	1995	This Independent Study examines the topic of community-oriented policing including the attitudes and perceptions of officers. The dependent variables for this study are as follows: changed attitudes toward community-oriented policing programs, attitudes toward the community-now, community attitude toward the police now, how knowledge of the community has been useful, and community involvement. These were tested against the following independent variables: coded age, race, rank, training levels, and education levels. It is important to note that the variables race and rank were excluded from measure due the inadequacy of the original data. This study was based on the data collected by Peter Kratcoski and Robert Blair in 1993. Permission was granted for the use of this data by Robert Blair. The data was gathered through the surveying of police officers including the use of a survey questionnaire (see Appendix). The results of hypotheses testing concludes that community-oriented policing does improve the attitude of the community toward the police and that the reciprocal also holds true. It has also been discovered that there is no significance between the training levels of officers and positive attitudes toward community-oriented policing programs when tested against age. However, when testing the attitudes of officers toward the community-now by training the results proved to be nearly statistically significant, the inverse of this test also proved to be nearly statistically significant. When testing how useful knowledge of the community had been by the variables training the results proved to be nearly statistically significant. However, when testing the usefuless of community knowledge by training levels of officers the results were insignificant. Community involvement proved to be insignificant in both cases when testing it by training levels and education levels. Further research is suggested which emphasizes applying the variables race and rank, randomly testing the opinions and perceptions of the community and to expand testing to communities that exceed 30,000 residents.
1995_SOAN_05509412.pdf	1995	This thesis explores gang intervention programs within the city of Cleveland and the surrounding areas. A comparison will be drawn between Cleveland intervention programs and the intervention programs contained in several other cities to find the best solutions to ending youth gangs. Interviews were conducted with four sources from the Cleveland area to gain a better understanding of their individual efforts as well as the programs they are involved with. Cleveland's quick action when the problem first arose has enabled them to become well involved with all aspects of intervention. With limited funds these sources have developed very strong programs that are building for the future. With an increase in funds more programs can focus on rehabilitation, with an economic push necessary for the eventual elimination of these youth gangs.
1995_SOAN_05509414.pdf	1995	Chronically ill adolescents experience an altered development of self because of the unique identities that arise through the course of their illness. This study focused on adolescents with Crohn's Disease, a chronic illness mainly affecting the immune and digestive systems, and their movement through four identity levels (supernormal, restored, contingent personal, and salvaged) as presented by Cathy Charmas (1987). My sample was obtained from a population of fourteen adolescents with Chron's Disease. The adolescents completed a survey which questioned their attitudes about selected school activities and their illness. Through this study determined behaviors during the chronically ill child's school experiences which correlate with these identity levels. Broader social implications of deviance and labeling in illness are examined through the perspective of Merton's Anomie Theory.
1996_SOAN_05509420.pdf	1996	"This study explores the images of women in the video game Mortal Kombat II, and details the effects of those images on players. A content analysis of the game was performed in order to determine the nature of the images of women in Mortal Kombat II (MKII). The content analysis revealed that women in MKII are more likely than the males to be underrepresented as a portion of the population, have blonde hair, be portrayed as sex objects, be dependent on other characters for survival, be subordinate to other characters, and possess attributes which mark them as distinctly feminine. The manner in which women are presented in MKII is similar to how women are presented on television. These findings are consistent with Baudrillard's theory of the sign which holds that the content of one sign is the mirror reflection of another. In an attempt to determine how the images of women in MKII affect players, a survey questionnaire was distributed to 238 College of Wooster students. Cross tabulations revealed some significant relationships between playing MKII and having certain beliefs about women. However, multiple regression analysis showed that other variables (i.e the respondent's sex) were better predictors of a person's beliefs about women, and the significance of having played MKII on the dependent variables was eliminated. These findings lend little support to Baudrillard's theory of the hyperreal, which holds that simulations have become ""realler"" than true reality. Implications for future research are also discussed."
1996_SOAN_05509422.pdf	1996	This thesis examines the relationship between male and female adult survivors of childhood sexual abuse regarding five variables; betrayal, stigmatization, powerlessness, traumatic sexualization, and revictimization and perpetration. The differences between the men and the women will be explained by childhood socialization under the frame work of feminist, symbolic interactionist, and functionalist theories. Data were collected by interview and survey. The original data for the survey was collected by I. A. Lewis for the Los Angeles Times Poll in 1985. Participants included 1,145 men and 1,485 women, each of whom was interviewed over the phone for about one hour. Participants for the interviews were contacted through therapists. All of the interviews were conducted in New York State; ten were conducted in person at a location of the participants choice, and one interview was conducted over the phone. Survey results were found for three of the variables: betrayal, traumatic sexualization, and stigmatization. Interview results were found for all of the variables. Issues with each of the variables were dominant in both men's and women's lives. However, gender differences were found with each variable. Women were more likely to: feel betrayed by someone who should have protected them,: feel stigmatized because women should not have sex outside of marriage,: submit to men sexually, and have unhealthy attitudes about what sex should be,: relinquish power to others,: and were more likely to find themselves revictimized in future relationships. Most of these findings could be explained by childhood socialization. More in depth research needs to be done to determine how childhood socialization effects survivors based on their gender.
1996_SOAN_05509426.pdf	1996	This thesis explores the relationships of adoptive status, self-image, and the family structure. This study was conducted by distributing questionnaires, which measured sex, race, socioeconomic status, self-esteem, self-perceived relationships with family members, and adoptive status, to 55 college students at the College of Wooster. Results showed that the relationship between adoption and self-image is not correlated. Adoptive status does not affect an individual's self-image. Also, adoptees experience similar feelings of closeness, respect, and conflict with family members as do non-adoptees. Future research is suggested, focusing more on family structure and dynamics and their impact on the adopted child through in-home interviews.
1996_SOAN_05509427.pdf	1996	My thesis explores a random sampling of middle class American Christian youth at The College of Wooster on their views of cancer and cancer treatment. My survey asks the students to define cancer and describe what it looks like, describe how a medical physician would define cancer, how the body fights cancer, how one gets cancer, who gets cancer, if they have known anyone that has had cancer, what treatments were used, how they would treat cancer, are they aware of guided imagery as a form of treatment, and (after explaining this treatment) do they think it would work. After examining and analyzing the data on the students, I apply theories from current literature that best illustrate the role society plays in determining our concepts of disease, specifically cancer. I also explore a healing technique called guided imagery, which can be used therapeutically in order to help cancer patients cope with their diagnosis and treatment, and sometimes even heal the patient.
1996_SOAN_05509429.pdf	1996	This thesis explores the effects of urban gardening programs on the community in which they exist using a qualitative research method. Current literature relating to the topic is explored through discussions and summaries that expose the differing opinion on the effects of gardening programs on urban dwellers. Classical sociological theories form the foundation fr0m which the urban personality is analyzed. The study takes place at an urban community garden in, the South Bronx, New York. The sample consists ,of volunteers and leaders of organizations that were fundamental in the development of the community garden. Twenty seven 3rd grade students, which are the primary users of the garden, are also included in the sample. Findings of this study revealed that the activity ofgardening was important to the people involved; but more essential were the positive effects of working together toward-a ·common goal.
1996_SOAN_05509433.pdf	1996	This study examines the roles and status of women in Zimbabwe before and after Independence in 1980. It focuses on whether or not women actually have rights now that Independence has occurred. The review of literature examines several research studies all discussing before, during and after Independence in Zimbabwe. The study also discusses several theories including, functionalism, conflict, elite and eclectic feminist theories. The methods used in this study were personal interviews and questionnaires in the mail. The results section includes both FREQUECIES and T-TEST runs. In sum, the paper is a view of the status of black women in Zimbabwe before, during and, especially, after Independence. Results showed that black Zimbabwean women do enjoy a greater economic, political and social power than they enjoyed before Independence. Future research will be undertaken to further this study over a longer period of time in order to obtain a larger sample.
1996_SOAN_05509434.pdf	1996	The interest that I have in my topic is a result of the extreme problem of overcrowded jails, that our country has been subjected to. The search for alternative forms of punishment as well as rehabilitation has become intense. The need for evaluations of these alternative answers have become detrimental to their existence. The idea of electronically monitored home arrest programs is one that could eventually change or whole punitive system, if it is nurtured to better both our punished as well as our society as a whole. The main step in turning home incarceration into a well established successful alternative comes out of determining which individuals are best suited for these programs. This is why I chose to measure the impact of personal characteristics on the successfulness of program completion. Information resulting from my hypotheses can be used to screen individuals for these types of programs. The study which I executed was a secondary analysis based on the data gathered by Michael G. Maxfeild and Terry L. Baumer, in their 1992 study of pretrial home detention in Marion County, Indiana. The study used a population of 224 participants who could not afford bail but did not need to be incarcerated in a formal institution. Using this data, I developed four hypotheses that were tested measuring the success of participants as the dependent variable and four characteristics that potentially could predict success or failure as the independent variables. The cross tabulations that were designed help to prove that marital and employment status were predictors of success, while living arrangements and home visits by officers, proved to predict success theoretically but not statistically. My study has shown the importance of evaluating participants personal characteristics and should supply future researchers with information vital to analyzing electronically monitored home detention programs.
1997_SOAN_05509436.pdf	1997	This thesis investigates the self-esteem of a particular group of adolescent girls in the horse world. These girls, called Bam Slaves, are those who do the dirty work in horse stables in exchange for riding lessons and privileges. The independent variables in this study are attitudes towards work, gender-role orientation, and relationships with friends and family. These variables were tested with the use of interviews. Results show that girls with positive attitudes towards work, masculine gender-role orientation, and positive relationships do have higher self-esteem. Also, those girls who are involved in the horse world of their own accord have higher self-esteem. This study is a pilot study. Future research is suggested to compare the self-esteem of Bam Slaves to that of other adolescent girls. A more extensive study would solve issues of reliability.
1997_SOAN_05509441.pdf	1997	"This thesis explores what ethnic identity means for Polish American in the Cleveland area, and how it is maintained. The methodology consists of twelve ethnographic interviews, representing social variables of class, generation, and immigration. The interviews addressed the issues of identity and the involvement within the Polish American community, Polonia, which as been outlined in the review of literature. The gathered material was analyzed through various theoretical approaches to ethnicity and identity, such as situational ethnicity, the boundary approach Gordon's ""ethclass"", and Reminick's model of identity. A distinction has been found within the Polish American community along the lines of class and generation. Education level of various immigrants also becomes an important variable in understanding the composition of Cleveland's Polonia. Similarities do exist among all these Polish Americans, through their shared symbols and traditions of cultural pride. It is suggested that the term Polonia itself, exists as a powerful symbol of commonality for the ethnic group. Further research is suggested which focuses on a larger representation of Cleveland's Polish Americans in finding deeper themes of shared similarities. An in-depth exploration of Cleveland's organizations is also suggested for a stronger understanding of the physical structures of identity."
1997_SOAN_05509443.pdf	1997	This thesis investigates the predictors of attitudes toward abortion using the variables of sex, race, political ideology, age, religion, church attendance, and education. Findings are based on the 1994 National Opinion Research Center General Social Survey. I found that support for abortion is related to race, political ideology, age, religion, church attendance, and education. The findings are congruent with past research . Attitudes t oward abortion can best be explained with functional theory. A longitudinal study or including other variables are further directions in which research could go . Attitudes toward abortion are far from reaching consensus in society.
1997_SOAN_05509446.pdf	1997	This thesis was designed as a comparative study of social functions of sport between the United States and Japan. Specifically, the study collected data of the different cultural uses of golf within each country. Local golf pros, of contrasting golf clubs, were interviewed to determine the social differences of a golf course between social classes. Data for the comparison study of the Japanese culture was collected by examining articles which discuss the tremendous golf phenomenon in Japan. The information gathered about Japanese golf was positively related to the theoretical process of hegemony. These findings sharply contrasted the many types of American golf course, both public and private, which assure that golfers of any social or skill level can find an appropriate golf course.
1997_SOAN_05509449.pdf	1997	Using an ecological approach, this thesis explores the effects of social indicators on six cities in the Greater Cleveland area in order to dete1mine gang presence. The variables, including race, clime, poverty, educational attainment, housing, and female-headed households, were chosen from the existing data on this topic which only pe1mitted me to gain a minimal amount of info1mation. The literature and theory sections suggested that the nature and migration of gangs is due prima1ily to factors like pove1ty and crime. However, by analyzing the findings, one will see that it is obvious that gang presence is a combination of all the characteristics that were chosen for this analysis. Although this study seeks to show the social indicators of the six cities that attract gangs; it also speaks for many of the cities in the nation in regards to which indicators are more characteristics and effective in attracting gangs. Though the statistics are radically different from one another, many characteristics are apparent for both types of cities. Again, although this study used a rather small sample, the data in the findings section mirrors much of the literature that has been w1itten on this topic. Perhaps a larger sample would have been more representative of the real nature of the gang problem. In concluding the study, the discussion of this paper suggests that both types of cities, cities with gangs and cities without, share the same characteristics of cities that are indicative of gang presence. However, the cities that do attract gangs or have already detected some level of gang activity seem to be areas that are poor and socially disorganized. Suburbs with characteristics close to inner-city characte1istics are the most likely recipients of gang migration. More attention needs to be paid to the ecology of cities which relates to crime, delinquency and poverty. Future research should address many of the key questions and problems that have been raised in this paper.
1997_SOAN_05509451.pdf	1997	This study investigates the gender and identity messages presented to teenage girls in female adolescent magazines targeted at them. It surveys the literature on socialization, gender socializing agents, and past studies done on these magazines, and concludes that adolescence is a critical time for girls in the development of an identity and gender identity. The review of social learning, cognitive development, and symbolic interactionism reveal that messages in these magazines can affect young girls by presenting models which girls look to in order to understand how to act, dress, and behave. Through content analysis this study explores two research questions. The first explores how education and schooling are portrayed in Seventeen, and the second investigates whether the magazine contains more traditional or contemporary messages. Results indicate that the few articles that did address education were coded as neutral; not emphasizing a value in getting an education. The results also reveal that the majority of the overall magazine content focused on traditional messages which emphasized appearance and looking good. This study suggests that messages in Seventeen in conjunction with traditional gender messages girls often received through other socializing agents, can have a powerful impact on teenage girls' identity development.
1997_SOAN_05509458.pdf	1997	The purpose of my independent study is to perform an exploratory study of the Assessment, Intervention, and Transition Program at the Multanomah County Juvenile facility in Portland, Oregon. The AIT Program is a thirty day program that addresses the problems of gang-involved youth and other at-risk youth facing possible commitment to the adult court system. I began by researching other treatment programs for youth and correlated their evaluation with my evaluation of the AIT Program. This was done by elementary surveys, participant observation, and formal interviews. To my dismay, many of the treatment programs for youth in the United States have been unsuccessful. There is a lack of knowledge as to what works for juveniles. The Assessment, Intervention, andTransition Program is successful, however more emphasis may have been placed on recidivism. The results show a need for further research and I have proposed a research evaluation of the program.
1997_SOAN_05509460.pdf	1997	The dance portion of the Ahtna potlatch functions as a mechanism for cultural transmission. The decline of the Ahtna, Athabaskan population has increased the responsibility of the potlatch to maintain indigenous customs. The potlatch is one of the few remaining traditional Ahtna rituals, as many have become extinct. The mortuary potlatch is the most commonly performed due to the high rates of suicide and alcoholism. Thus, the role of survival is inherent to the Ahtna potlatch as it is performed during times of crisis. The spatial structure and social roles of the dance portion mirror aspects of Ahtna society, defining it nonverbally. The act of dancing enables the spending of kinetic energy which heightens consciousness to allow a connection with spiritual icons from the remote past. This connection reinforces their historical, ancestral identity, which aids in the sustenance of contemporary Ahtna culture.
1997_SOAN_05509462.pdf	1997	The effect of fanship and increased city identity on participation in the 1995 Save Our Browns protest is explored in this thesis. Using the J-curve hypothesis, Karp and Yoel's view of sport identification, and Blumer's classical movement strategies, hypotheses were determined that explain the experiences of residents in Cuyahoga County. These determinants of protest participation in an urban context were examined and measured through questionnaires distributed to a sample of Cleveland area residents. From the results provided by 116 participants, increased fanship proved to be significantly related to participation in the protests. Art Modell, owner of the Browns, is believed to be highly and solely responsible for the move of the Browns. Other relationships, including the effect of increased city identity on protest participation, were not conclusive due to small sample size or the timeliness of the research. Events that occurred since the protest may have altered the attitudes of Cleveland residents and altered the results. For future research, it is suggested that social scientists investigate protests quickly to minimize the intervening effect of other events on attitudes of the sample. For Cleveland, this study is only one part of a whole that must be completed to fully realize the impact of the franchise loss.
1997_SOAN_05509466.pdf	1997	"This thesis explores what ""family"" means to Mexican-Americans living in Northeastern Ohio. The methodology consisted of nine ethnographic interviews of Mexican-American individuals, who represented a variety of social variables. The interviews addressed the issues of extended familism and gender roles that had been extensively outlined in the literature. However, the subject matter of the interviews also necessitated the theoretical examination of cultural identity in the context of family. The identity of these individuals can be described as ""Cultural Blending,"" a syncratic phenomenon in which elements of Mexican tradition and elements of the Anglo-American present are carefully combined. Another key element of this study that the literature did not address is the way in which these people actually define ""family,"" and other associated concepts such as ""mother,"" ""father,"" and ""godparent."" While the family does serve specific functional purposes, it must also be considered as an ideological construct. Further research should be carried out to examine the experiences of Mexican-Americans and other ethnic minorities in ethnically isolated regions of the country such as Ohio. Future research should also explore the effects of internal migration and occupational demands on the lives of Mexican- Americans."
1997_SOAN_05509469.pdf	1997	This thesis explores the field of victim-offender mediation within the criminal justice system, and presents the results of an evaluation of one such program. The theories of retributive and restorative justice are compared and used to support mediation. A review of the current literature reveals many benefits to the practice. To conduct the evaluation, questionnaires were developed and distributed to mediation participants and a control group in Holmes County, Ohio to determind their assessments of their experiences. These data, along with an analysis of demographic variables and restitution completion rates, forms the substance of the evaluation. Due to the small sample size, the study did not show significant differences between experimental and control groups, although it did suggest generally positive outcomes from mediation. Tentative support for the hypotheses is found, although no findings were conclusive. The other components of the evaluation present a picture of victim, offender, and offense characteristics. Further research is essential, and could take the form of increasing the sample size and of studying topics such as the reasons why people choose not to participate in mediation.
1997_SOAN_05509470.pdf	1997	This theis explores the similarities and the differences between individuals with congenital disabilities and individuals with acquired disabilities. It concentrates on the problems that disabled face in American society and the coping mechanisms that they utilize to deal with the problems. This was accomplished by conducting interviews with 8 individuals with physical disabilities that reside in Ohio. Three of the individuals had congenital disabilities, and five of the contributors had acquired disabilities. Results showed that individuals with congenital disabilities had a different self-image than individuals with acquired disabilities. Yet, they utilized similar coping mechanisms to deal with the obstacles that they face. The coping mechanisms that they utilized included the belief that they lives could be worse, denial that disability has an affect on their lives, using positive role models, minimizing the obstacles that they face, utilizing the various support systems that were available, and having an optimistic outlook about their life. Future research is suggested, focusing on narrowing the study questions to cover a smaller number of coping strategies. Future studies should include a larger sample size. They should also attempt to determine if individuals with disabilities can agree on a group identity.
1997_SOAN_05509472.pdf	1997	This paper explores the topic of cohabitation, and the social institutions which form attitudes towards cohabitation. These institutions include work status, religion, and education. Data was taken from questions asked on the 1994 General Social Survey. A scale was created using seven GSS questions as a measure of conservative or liberal family values. Variables used include level of education, church attendance, age at first marriage, and attitudes towards premarital sex. GSS data was run in the SPSSx program using crosstabs to measure the relationship between variables. The measurements used include chi-square and gamma. Results show that most people get married in the average ages (24 through 30), and that church attendance, out of all the variables used, has the strongest effect on attitudes towards cohabitation. Theoretical perspectives are presented as a way of explaining the trend of cohabitation. Functionalism is the focus of the theory section, as the focus of the paper as a whole is the interaction between social institutions. Future research is suggested, especially qualitative research, such as interviews, as these would offer more depth about the experience of cohabitation, not only the attitudes towards cohabitation.
1997_SOAN_05509475.pdf	1997	"The purpose of this thesis is to determine if, in terms of recidvism, intermediate sanctions and community corrections programs are at least as effective or more effective than general probation or incarceration of non-violent juveniles. The literature review addresses various intermediate sanctions and community corrections programs such as intensive probation supervision, boot camps, house arrest, and restitution programs. The conclusion of the literature review that that intermediate sanctions and community corrections programs are at least as effective and in some cases slightly more effective than general probation or incarceration of young offenders. The design of some of the studies summarized in the literature was found to be unusable in the overall analysis because of a lack of control group. Whitehead and Lab (1989) used a meta-analysis method to conduct their study of juvenile correctional treatment. This thesis uses Whitehead and Lab (1989) as a guide for the analysis of the five usable studies by calculating the phi coefficient and the chi-square. Meta-analysis has the advantage of using a broad range and large volume of studies and the disadvantage of mixing ""apples and oranges"" together in the results. This analysis finds that only one study is statistically significant. This lack of statisically significant results suggests that researchers need to conduct more classical experimental designed studies in the area of intermediate sanctions and community corrections for juvenile offenders. Such studies evaluating specific programs are needed in order to determine which are effective. If these programs are at least as effective as general probation and incarceration, the argument can be made that these programs should be used instead of creating more crowded conditions in detention and multiplying the heavy caseloads in probation offices."
1997_SOAN_05509478.pdf	1997	"This thesis explores cultural constructions of health, health foods, and natural foods shared by people who shop at a health food co-op. Two theoretical models were reviewed. The first theory relates beliefs about health to ecological setting, and the other theorizes that health food movement has many characteristics which fit Geertz's definition of religion. Data was collected through participant observation, informal and formal interviews, and surveys. The surveys were designed to reveal what cultural categories co-op customers shared regarding health and foods. The findings supported both theoretical models. The findings revealed that Co-op customers shared both ""internal"" and ""external"" explanations for health and illness. In addition, co-op customers also shared the system of symbols and worldview of the health food movement. This system of symbols and worldview is characteristic of a ""little"" religion. A further study might look at how constructions of health and health food differ cross-culturally."
1997_SOAN_05509479.pdf	1997	My research for this paper was designed to study inequality in American education by specifically looking at the awareness of inequality, attitudes towards this problem, and the justification of privilege by the students at New Trier High School in the wealthy Chicago suburb, Winnetka, Illinois. I administered a survey to 130 students to test their awareness of conditions and funding in Chicago public schools, and their attitudes toward obvious inequalities in education opportunities between New Trier and Chicago. I studied New Trier administrators and faculty members. I found that New Trier students had limited awareness of Chicago public schools realities, but a bit more than stereotypes of elite high schoolers might lead one to believe. I found that, although their awareness was inadequate, they expressed an interest in the problems of Chicago public schools. Not all New Trier students subscribed to the meritocracy belief that their parents had worked hard to secure their deserved privilege. Further research is needed to determine whether New Trier's new co-curricular multi-cultural program will affect and broaden students' awareness, attitudes, and justification of existing educational disparities.
1997_SOAN_05509481.pdf	1997	This thesis explores shoplifting trends among college students reporting specific types of variables which distinguish attitudes about theft. Gender, age, care-givers income, hometown population and race explain differences and similarities relating rates of theft among student shoplifters. These variables reflect hypotheses that sufficiently draw comparisons between shoplifters and non-shoplifters, also attributing to motivations toward deviant acts. This is done by distributing questionnaires, which measures gender, size of campus, age, social class and other control variables, to students at Kent State University and the College of Wooster. Results show that the relationship between all of the variables with the exception of social class is insignificant at the .05 level. Few of the 309 students participating, acknowledge any shoplifting trends attributing to the insignificant levels of the data. The information compiled is useful for comparing the two institutions to theft. Future research is suggested, focusing on the development of new variables which may be discovered through the interview technique. One such variable might be GPA levels which may compare shoplifters from non-shoplifters predicting their shoplifting habits in regards to student intelligence. More emphasis might also be placed on informational factors within each institution producing further explanations of how institutions run.
1997_SOAN_05509487.pdf	1997	This Senior Independent Study explores the relationship between socioeconomic status, the level of parents' education and marital status and the effect these variable have on parents' educational aspirations for their children and children's educational aspirations. Literature was chosen that focused on educational aspirations, educational attainment and other possible influential variables. To analyze the existing literature, the broad Reproduction Theory was used, as well as some middle-range theories, the Correspondence Principle of Bowles and Gintis, the Cultural Capital Theory of Bourdieu and Coleman's theory of Social Capital. To collect the data about this topic, case studies of five families were conducted, using participant observation in an after school program and interviews with parents and children in their homes. One parent from each family was interviewed alone with one child between the ages of 8 and 11. Results indicated that socioeconomic status did not have as big of an effect on educational aspirations as was indicated by a considerable amount of prior research, also that parents with high levels of education had high aspirations for their children and had a positive influence on their children's educational aspirations. However, in most of the cases in this study, regardless of parents' education level, parents and children had high aspirations. The data also indicated that the marital status of the parents did not seem to influence children's educational aspirations. Future research is suggested focusing on the differenc in educational aspirations depending on age, especially upon entering high school and throughout, also looking at the various influences of teachers, peers and siblings on educational aspirations.
1997_SOAN_05509490.pdf	1997	This thesis explore the culture of Puerto Rican Americans living in the Northeastern Ohio area through an analysis of the folstories that they provided. The talkes were collected through formal interviews consisting of open-ended questions. Topics considered important to the contributors included the loss of tradition and the youths' lack of appreciation for their cultural traditions. Stories told by the contributors included tales of family histories and stories of historical and traditional events of the island. A structural analysis of these tales brought out an underlying structure which highlights the binary opposition between Puerto Rican and American elements. These results indicate the integration of the cultures of the island and the mainland into the lives and cultures of the Puerto Ricans living here in Ohio. Creating a new definition of the family story as folklore points toward futher reseach.
1997_SOAN_05509493.pdf	1997	This thesis explores attitudes about the New Age movement from the perspective of those within it, suggesting a positive correlation between the movement and Victor Turner's theory of religion along with Anthony F.C. Wallace's model of revitalization movements. A series of ten interviews were conducted with individuals whom are either participants in the New Age or, despite their uncertainty with the label, accept many of its principles; one other interviewee does not associate with the New Age at all. A Course in Miracles and The Celestine Prophecy, two works frequently mentioned in connection with the New Age, were also reviewed. Results showed that while members of the movement reject the religion label, the New Age does contain religios elements; it also provides proponents with a working explanation of the world. In addition, the movement contains revitalized Eastern, Western, and Native American ideas. Results also made the extremely broad nature of the New Age abundantly clear. Future research is suggested, focusing on other theories which could be applied to the movement, comparisons to other historical movements, and the direction the New Age might take in the future.
1997_SOAN_05509501.pdf	1997	This thesis explores space design and use within the Anglo-American home. Spatiality, domestic or otherwise, forms a representation of cultural ideology. Literature on the theorization of space, the history of domestic space and planned communities in the United States, and gender constructs was reviewed in order to analyze fieldwork on domestic space from two perspectives, that of the resident and that of the builder/developer. A questionnaire was distributed to residents of Lake View, a new planned community, and interviews were completed with two residents and the builder/developer. The two perspectives were then compared. In the end, residents' use of space within their homes and the builder/developer's perspective of the way domestic space was intended to be used primarily correlate. In addition, domestic space, as well as outside community space, provide a commentary on the social order of contemporary American culture, as well as specific cultural notions and attitudes. Additional research on the ways which people use their homes is necessary to determine how architectural design can support residents' lifestyles.
1997_SOAN_05509502.pdf	1997	This thesis explores the meanings of food, and dietary practices in Hindu Indian culture. A major goal of this study entailed finding out the everyday meanings of Indian food in the lives of Hindu Indian students at the College of Wooster. Data collected from interviews indicated that one's socioeconomic status, and religious practices influenced informants' view of food, eating practices, and dietary customs. Additional forces such as westernization and the decline of traditional eating practices in informants' lives have also shaped meanings of food. A second goal of this study entailed finding out whether foods eaten at an Indian festival, such as the Diwali festival at the College of Wooster, had more of a significance to Indian students than foods consumed on an everyday basis. Data collected for this part of the thesis involved engaging in participant observation at the Babcock Dorm's Diwali festival at the College of Wooster, and interviewing the same ten Indian informants as mentioned above. Findings revealed that food had many meanings to Hindu students. Further research on this topic might involve studying the meaning of foods used specifically in religious ceremonies.
1997_SOAN_05509504.pdf	1997	This thesis is a study of the Sorrowful Mother Shrine, a shrine dedicated to the Virgin Mary in northwest Ohio. First hand research was conducted at the shrine using participant observation and questionnaires answered by visitors to the shrine. Relevant literature is presented in three categories: discussions and theories of sacred space, studies of shrines within a variety of cultures, and examples of the many interpretations of the Virgin Mary as a symbol. Following the results of the research methods is a summary of the major themes that emerged from the observations of the shrine and the responses to the questionnaries. These themes are then combined with major points from each of the categories of literature to form a theoretical analysis of the shrine in terms of the its sacred space, the conflict between the religious purpose and business administration of the shrine, and the symbol of Mary and its meanings for the visitors.
1998_SOAN_05509508.pdf	1998	This thesis explores the causes of job satisfaction, alienation and anomie in the nursing profession. It focuses primarily on four independent variables; age, race, sex and work status (i.e.; full time or part time). The study sought to determine which of these four variables best predicted the levels of job satisfaction, alienation and anomie using bi-variate and multivariate analysis. Secondary analysis was the research method employed, using the GSS data. The results showed that age was most important in determining job satisfaction levels, while race and work status were important in determining levels of anomie. Future research is suggested to create new variables which will have better effects on the dependent variables. More interviews with a lot more nurses from a lot more varied backgrounds is also suggested. This form of analysis could be used to strengthen the results found and conclusions made in the cmrent study.
1998_SOAN_05509509.pdf	1998	My Senior Independent Study is focused on how Australian Aboriginal art becomes reinterpreted in terms of value and meaning, through international trade as a part of the process of acculturation. I am conceptualizing what happens to the art when people outside of the Aborigine community use it to their advantage. Aboriginal art can be seen in many different forms which incorporate designs of deep meaning and value. The designs are part of The Dreaming which describes many stories and traditions of Aboriginal history and religion. More importantly, the various symbols describe creation and the roles of Aboriginal ancestors. Art, therefore, serves as a force in shaping culture. In another important way, art is a voice for Aborigines to make their presence known and to stand up for their citizen rights. Art is used as a political medium to remind the Australian government that Aborigines will not tolerate mistreatment and misrepresentation of their race. Furthermore, art is an outlet for many Aborigines to stay out of trouble and to avoid alcohol, which is a rampant problem among Aborigines. As a result of the lack of the jobs available to Aborigines and unequal hiring practices, alcohol becomes an escape mechanism and thus leads to incidences of domestic violence. Museums and galleries also play a role in how Aboriginal art IS presented to the public. The context of the displays have the ability to either misrepresent or misinterpret Aboriginal art in terms of its goals for Aboriginal people. The passage of Aboriginal art into the international art scene results in its increase in price, although its meaning and value are not always made clear to the Western art world.
1998_SOAN_05509516.pdf	1998	This thesis examines the relationship between high school vandalism and strain on students. The model proposed draws from strain theory, control theory, and differential association. Vandalism is proposed to be a result of strain on a student created by an adverse school environment, a lack of external constraints, and the belief that vandalism is a good way to relieve strain. To test this theory, a survey was distributed to 210 first years at the College of Wooster. The surveys were designed to measure student attitudes toward high school, whether their peers committed vandalism, school security, and a students own involvement in vandalous acts, as well as control variables of gender and SES. Results showed some support for the proposed model. Problems with the study are discussed, as well as possible avenues for future research.
1998_SOAN_05509517.pdf	1998	"In this project, I set out to learn what kind of images comprise the representation ofthe !Kung San in etnographic works and film. I discuss hunter-gatherer ethnographic works, comparing the images found in past works to present ethnography. I also make an anthropological and philosophical inquiry about the subject of truth and relativity in representation, and discuss the massive debate over objectivity and subjectivity in ethnography. In conducting the analysis of the film, The Gods Must Be Crazy, I discovered that the movie perpetuates images ofthe !Kung San as a ""pristine"" and ""isolated"" society. The stereotype of the ""primitive Other"" parallels images found in early ethnographic observations of the San. I suggest that cultural representations, such as ethnographies, are partially subjective in nature. For the future of hunter-gatherer studies, I propose that we take into consideration a revisionist approach: the !Kung San are not an ""isolated"" society, contrary to what early depictions imply; nor is there culture destroyed. Different cultures have various belief systems, and in order to decipher these we must engage in intense research, and minimize our ethnocentric ideas by adopting a cultural relativistic perspective. In addition, when perceiving cultural representations, we should consider the following: an element of reflexivity in the representation as well as our own reflectivity, the ethnographic present of the work we are observing, and the methods used by the researcher to collect the cultural information. Perhaps with these considerations, we can get past the partial subjectivity of ethnography, and the problem of truth and relativity, and really get to the ""heart"" of the culture. The presence of cultural diversity in our surroundings can provide a beautiful theater for our performance as one human race, only enabled by mutual understanding."
1998_SOAN_05509524.pdf	1998	This thesis is an exploratory study of aggressive driving and road rage from the point of view of traffic enforcement officers. Through an integrated theoretical approach consisting of cultural, structural , and social psychological explanations, the study addresses what constitutes aggressive driving, who are typical aggressive drivers, and where, when, why, and how it occurs. A focus on traffic enforcement officers comes out of a dearth of research on their opinions. The three theoretical components were applied to the analysis of traffic enforcement officers' attitudes and perceptions. This was done by employing methods such as interviewing, observing, and surveying. Surveys, which measured variables and concepts such as sex, gender, age, deviance, aggression, risk perception, values, institutions, and norms in relation to aggressive driving, were distributed to 64 traffic enforcement officers. Results showed that there are five common acts constituting aggressive driving, time restraints and blaming others are typical excuses, the gap is widening as to who commits violations, and aggressive driving is a selfish, individual act, which officers witness every day. Policy implications are suggested, along with future research which focuses on using an integrated theory and combining qualitative and quantitative methods. Of particular interest is a comparison of law enforcement, media, and public perceptions and attitudes regarding aggressive driving actions and behavior. More emphasis might be placed on risk perception, connections to deviance, and the misinterpretation and unpredictability of varying actions and reactions among drivers.
1998_SOAN_05509528.pdf	1998	This thesis examines the symbolism of Wicca, or Witchcraft, a rapidly growing religion in America. Practitioners of Wicca identify their religion as a direct descendent of the pre-Christian pagan witchcraft cults of Europe which were forced underground in the seventeenth century as a result of the Christian persecutions of witches, known as the Burning Times. The majority of Wiccans today worship a Goddess and God, revere the Earth as divine, practice magic, believe in reincarnation, and refuse to proselytize. The Wiccan Goddess and God, as well as many other ritual implements, are what Victor Turner refers to as multivocal symbols. Through content analysis of exegetic accounts of Witchcraft, the symbols and myths of Wicca are examined in light of Turner's theory and others. The data reveals that Wicca is a syncretism: it has roots in Anglo-American tradition, but has also borrowed aspects from many cultures and incorporated them into what is now considered contemporary witchcraft. Wicca is a religion which has adapted itself to the changing social needs and values which have been flourishing in America since the sixties. The analysis and conclusions of this thesis are based solely on data which was collected from accounts of witchcraft as it is given by witches. Future research is suggested, focusing on the operational level of meaning, which could best be understood through participant observation in Wiccan ritual. More emphasis might also be placed on the demographics of witches: What segment of the greater population are attracted to witchcraft and why?
1998_SOAN_05509530.pdf	1998	The purpose of this senior Independent Study thesis is to explore gender constructions among female free trade zone workers in Santiago de los Caballeros, Dominican Republic. A great deal of theory and literature was reviewed concerning this topic including: history of feminist anthropology, Latina women and work, and women and development. The theory used specifically to address my research was Sherry Ortner's (1974) nature/culture theory, Henrietta Moore's (1988) theory addressing the different experiences of women and Arlene MacLeod's (1991) theory concerning hegemonic models of power. In order to gain a better understanding of gender construction, 33 interviews were conducted among female free trade zone workers in Santiago de los Caballeros, Dominican Republic. In addition free trade zone promotional brochures were collected and analyzed. From these interviews one can see that female workers have diverse experiences dependent upon their pruticular place in larger Dominican society. In addition, there is a discrepancy between the understanding of the free trade zones among the promotional brochures and the female workers.
2014_SOAN_05750081.pdf	2014	Few symbols are as revered and despised by Americans as the Confederate Battle Flag. Loosely derived from the Saint Andrew’s cross and used by the Confederacy in the Civil War, the flag has been used in a plethora of ways in the 20th century. The motives of the south in the Civil War and the popularity of the flag amongst ardent segregationists starting in 1948 have led many, including the NAACP, to call for its removal from all public spaces. The flag has taken on a cultural meaning that carried it across the country and to Europe, where some behind the Iron Curtain used it to oppose Soviet rule. Additionally, many younger people no longer associate the flag with the Civil War at all (Reed 1995). To thoroughly analyze the place of the flag in American society, this paper examines its history and several social theories that can explain its popularity. It then examines public perception of the flag by asking people on the street about the flag in short face-to-face interviews at settings in the north and south where Confederate imagery is present. The paper then ask members of the Sons of Confederate Veterans their thoughts on the flag and its place in society.
2015_SOAN_06771410.pdf	2015	Every Year 600,000 people reenter society from correctional institutions (Gunnison, 2013). Research suggests that ex-offenders find it difficult to obtain employment after they are released because of low skills and of stigma (cite). This project examines the effectiveness of correctional programs in helping ex-offenders obtain the necessary skills for later employment. Becker’s Labeling Theory, Goffman’s concept of stigma, and General Strain Theory by Agnew are used to explain ex-offenders’ experiences. In depth interviews were conducted with a snowball sample of seven ex-offenders and three courthouse officials. The questions used for each of the interviews were drawn from literature on offender reentry and correctional programming. The interviews were transcribed into data deductively through the literature and theory chapter of this research and inductively with the personal experiences. The findings suggest that programs can be effective, especially substance abuse treatment and halfway-houses. However, prison and reentry programs alone are not enough because of the severe stigma and labeling that ex-offenders experience.
2015_SOAN_06771791.pdf	2015	This feminist research project examines how identity is formed within the cultural practice of quinceañeras in contemporary Nicaragua. This research takes a qualitative approach as 30 interviews were conducted in four regions of Nicaragua: (1) Managua, (2) Puerto Cabeza, (3) Waspam and (4) San Carlos. These interviews were both conducted personally in Nicaragua as well as phone conversations. With the theoretical frameworks of Judith Butler (1990), Michael Foucault (1977), Anzaldúa (1994), Patricia Hill Collins (1986) and Uma Narayan (1998) I sought out to find how identity has been influenced by quinceañeras. I have found that contrary to popular assumptions of Latin@ culture, quinceañeras are individually different. The complexities that were uncovered within the quinceañeras mirrored the same complexities that exist within identities seen through the theoretical framework of performance, performativity, policing and intersectionality. What was found was that individuals’ both consciously and subconsciously perform their gender performance that is established socially, and culturally essentialized. By adhering to these scripts with the help of globalization, these participants have shown that there still exists an internal conflict that has placed these individuals identities in the borderlands, as theorized by Anzaldúa (1994). By this localized research, it has been proven that it is nearly impossible to homogenize cultural practices that continuously change over time.
2015_SOAN_06772348.pdf	2015	" Throughout its history, stand-up comedy has done much more than make people laugh.  While many of these effects have been positive, some have argued that comedy can harm as well as help.  Particularly in this day and age, there have been a number of controversies surrounding the kinds of jokes comedians have told and comments they have made on stage.  Discussions that attempt to address these issues have arguably been of limited usefulness and, as usual, people tend to prefer answers that are simple and easy to swallow to difficult and complicated ones that reflect the complexity of humor itself.  This project is an attempt to add something to the conversation that takes both theories of humor and common strategies of the stand-up comedians themselves into account.  After conducting a significant amount of research, I conducted focus groups to see what theories and strategies stuck out most to people.  While I did notice a few patters, opinions about comedy and stand-up seemed to be very diverse and subjective (much like humor itself).  Because of these findings, I decided that reframing the issue might lead to a better use of our time.  Thus, instead of using sociology to study stand-up comedy, I concluded that we might be able to discover a great deal about society by examining the kinds of jokes comedians tell and why we laugh at them.  
2015_SOAN_06773542.pdf	2015	This research explores the impact of urban agriculture on residents of the Dudley neighborhood of Boston, MA. In recent years, blighted urban communities in the United States have placed an increased emphasis on the inclusion of urban agriculture projects in their redevelopment process. Yet, what benefits do urban agriculture projects bring to these transforming neighborhoods, and what are unanticipated tensions that stem from their presence? I researched these questions through ten weeks of participant observation and 17 interviews with residents of Dudley and employees and youth affiliated with The Food Project, a local urban agriculture organization located in the community. I discovered that while increased food access and personal development were among the most significant benefits of urban agriculture’s presence in Dudley, The Food Project’s reliance on enterprise farming and outside donors runs at odds with their mission to promote holistic youth and community development through food. This research draws on the theoretical frameworks of environmental justice and urban political ecology, as well as literature on past revitalization and urban agriculture projects within American cities. I conclude by noting that urban agriculture’s presence in Dudley occupies a very complicated role in the neighborhood and that The Food Project may need to redefine their mission to work effectively in the community.
2015_SOAN_06777538.pdf	2015	The goal of my study is to investigate how public schools approach the education of Native students in comparison to the methods used at Native American reservation schools. The purpose of this comparison is to see if there is a difference in how each school accommodates native students, and also to observe how/if they recognize native identity. To accomplish this I first summarize the findings of past literature on the topic, and divide the history of Native Americans into the Colonial, Federal and the Self-Determination eras. I briefly touch on the struggles many native students face, and I also explain various suggested approaches to native education. I layout a theoretical model that encompasses the theories of Bourdieu, Said, and Honneth; I go onto to elaborate how the model connects to native education. To collect the data I utilized ethnographic methods by conducting interviews with 7 individuals from Harbor Springs High School and the Saginaw Chippewa Academy in Michigan. I used the theoretical model to analyze the data. Overall, I found that identity proved to be vitally important in the academic success of Native American’s. Unfortunately, as indicated in both the literature and my findings, native students continue to struggle. I argue that to resolve the problems, schools need to take proactive steps to recognize the diverse cultural backgrounds of students. I found that both schools were attempting to do this, but greater strides in society as a whole need to take place.
2015_SOAN_06778822.pdf	2015	This Independent Study gives insight and perspective into after-school programming for low-income students. This study investigates and analyzes problems within the education system and how they have been addressed historically and theoretically. It delves deeper into the underpinnings of programs that are governmentally funded and the issues with this kind of funding. To investigate this topic I performed research on specific after-school programs in the areas of Chicago, IL and Wooster, OH. I interviewed and surveyed employees of the organizations and volunteers to research effectiveness, differences, funding, and structure of programs. From this research I have concluded that there are social issues that reside in the education system that can be addressed effectively through after-school programming. 
2015_SOAN_06783057.pdf	2015	In this study I explore how the beliefs and practices of Hindu American women are changed after they have children. In Hinduism, a woman's dharma, or duty, dictates that her role is to care for her husband and children. I ask how this plays into the changes in women's religious lives once they become mothers. I examine whether or not vrats, or fasting and prayers, become a larger part of Hindu women's religious practice. I ask 4 major questions: 1) How does the cosmological view of women affect their children? 2) How do traditionally Hindu understandings of motherhood dictate the ways that women enculturate their children? 3) How is mothering changed for Hindu immigrant women because they are raising their children in America? 4) How do Hindu women find freedom and agency in their role as immigrant mothers? The study is a qualitative analysis conducted via interviews with seven Hindu mothers between the ages of 40 and 72, all residents of Ohio.
2015_SOAN_06785696.pdf	2015	This project explores how street musicians interact with each other and the public and the effects that these interactions have on the social and spatial aspects of Findley Plaza, a small public park situated in Little Five Points, Atlanta. In spite of the racial, spatial, and socioeconomic tensions that have historically defined the ever-mercurial city of Atlanta, street musicians consistently perform in and around the bustling intersection of Moreland, Euclid, and McLendon Avenues. Who are these individuals, why do they busk, and why they choose to do so in such an area? Moreover, to what extent do interactions between street musicians and the public shape notions of community and place in Little Five Points? I investigated these questions via nine weeks of participant observation and 10 interviews with street musicians. I found that while a sense of community does exist among street musicians and the public, racial boundaries and a significant social power hierarchy complicate the notion of place in Findley Plaza. This research draws on Charles Rutheiser’s adaptation of Melvin Webber’s nonplace urban realm model, Setha Low’s theory of the spatialization of culture, and Victor Turner’s concepts of liminality and communitas. The sense of community that does exist between the street musicians and the public in Little Five Points speaks on behalf of the benefits to permitting street performance in public spaces, as the activity unites diverse groups of people through enjoyable shared experiences in an increasingly fragmented and gentrified urban world.
2015_SOAN_06788639.pdf	2015	This study investigates the prominent issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) in India. Through a combination of textual content analysis and in-depth interviews, it aims to understand how social and cultural norms create and perpetuate SRHR issues. The study includes in-depth interviewees with employees of local, national, and international SRHR organizations based in New Delhi, India. To provide a nuanced account of the SRHR discourse in India, interview analysis is supplemented by content analysis of organizations’ websites and the National Health Policy 2015 Draft. Results indicate that education, location, and economic status are the most significant factors influencing fertility and access to health services, and that government policy needs to be better implemented to address these factors. Additionally, results reveal that government health policy heavily targets maternal mortality, in line with the cultural emphasis on motherhood, which leads to neglect of other important SRHR services.
2015_SOAN_06788674.pdf	2015	This research is an examination of ecological and cultural intersections in environmentalism and health care. As conservation initiatives and protected areas expand and diversify across vast global landscapes, environmental groups come into contact with local communities living off the land. These communities’ livelihoods are often threatened by not only various environmental crises wreaking havoc on their available resources, but also by conservation initiatives, as borders are established and policies are drafted regarding fair and sustainable use. This thesis concerns itself mostly with medicinal plants and the functioning of health care systems in and around the protected areas of Tanzania. I make the argument that in cases of both environmental degradation and environmental conservation, the human environmental rights of local communities in Tanzania’s Maasai Steppe have been infringed upon, as important medicine becomes unavailable whether through deforestation or protected area regulations. I propose that both global and local environmentalisms react to each other in an ecoscape, a derivation of Arjun Appadurai’s globalization theories. Providing evidence from my ethnographic and ethnobotanical research in Tanzania, I argue that global organizations’ initiatives have much to gain from incorporating vernacular environmentalisms into their own agendas. 
2015_SOAN_06789234.pdf	2015	The research investigates the question, why live in a tent city? The study is informed by literature on U.S. tent cities and by theoretical understandings of deviance and stigmatization. The study contributes an analytical model—integrating Leon Anderson, David Snow, and Daniel Cress’ eight stigma management strategies with Robert Merton’s strain theory and Pierre Bourdieu’s forms of capital—to consider the modern context of tent cities. Ethnography of a tent city in Wooster, Ohio promotes the use of public sociology to engage homeless individuals in addressing a paradox of visibility: wherein the excessive visibility of homelessness spurs a desire for individuals to retreat; however, retreating rouses societal curiosity and thus greater visibility. The study concludes that tent cities are ineffective retreats; yet, the encampments are an innovative response to homelessness. Further research is needed to explore the possibility of tent cities as sites of successful rebellion through collective action.
2015_SOAN_06818865.pdf	2015	This project explores the competing discourses and practices between biomedical and folk healthcare models among the Karen, one of six highland minority groups that live in the upland areas of Northwest Thailand. My research puzzle focuses on the syncretisms that have emerged between villagers’ folk models and the biomedical model promoted by the clinic. I ask how the Karen perceive health and causes of illness, as well as how they navigate between various healing options. To investigate these questions, I draw on two complementary theoretical frameworks, Arthur Kleinman’s “explanatory model of care” and Glifford Geertz’s “religion as a cultural system.” My ethnographic research focused on one rural, Karen village. During 24 days of formal semi-structured interviews, participant observation, and mapping and kinship exercises, I explored village supernatural and religious beliefs, herbal remedies, and practitioners who cure using folk and biomedical methods. My findings indicate that the Karen are comfortable with both biomedical and folk explanations and treatments of illness. They demonstrate a high degree of cultural resiliency characterized not by the rejection of biomedicine, but rather by its incorporation into their indigenous cosmology. Nevertheless, three Thai state projects – the spread of government clinics and hospitals, economic and educational development, and the promotion of Buddhism as a state religion – pose threats to the continued resiliency of Karen folk healthcare beliefs and practices.
2015_SOAN_06825056.pdf	2015	"Abstract Poverty in the United States is one of the most widespread social justice issues of our time. Approximately one in six Americans currently lives below the federal poverty line. Given that most of the people living in poverty are women, a phenomenon known as the feminization of poverty, and the fact that sociological studies point to distinct ways in which gender impacts social experiences, more research is needed to examine the ways that women in poverty are affected by gendered expectations for their behavior. While aggregate figures pertaining to poverty are most frequently cited, we know much less about how women in poverty interact with social service agencies and, more specifically, how the interactions between providers and women in poverty may be consequential to women’s experiences. Employing a theoretical perspective based on Fukuyama’s notions of the economic benefits of trust, Hochschild’s findings on emotional labor and West & Zimmerman’s perspective on “doing gender,” I conducted a case study of a non-profit social service agency. Using a series of semi-structured interviews with both providers and women in poverty, I found evidence of several gendered strategies that exert a great deal of influence on interaction in this context. Ways that traits that are assumed to be essentially feminine are displayed by women in poverty, or actively fought against may be helpful or detrimental to their cases respectively. I provide an overview of my findings and discuss implications for future studies and policy, and I argue that the voices of women in poverty must receive greater attention in future discussions regarding the enacting of welfare policies in the United States."
2015_SOAN_06825126.pdf	2015	Government welfare is a program that is under constant scrutiny, but often what is missing from that conversation is consideration of how interaction between case workers and recipients may impact the administration of services. Relatively few studies examine how welfare policy is implemented on the ground level, yet research of this nature is critical to understanding how policy affects individuals seeking public assistance. To address this need, I conducted interviews of both caseworkers and recipients in a county welfare office about the interactions and, in particular, how the stigmatization of poverty affects those interactions. I found that caseworkers have the ability to use discretion to point individuals to additional services but the use of this discretion depends on previous judgments of character. These judgments hinge on whether or not a person is labeled as “deserving” or “undeserving.” My findings focus on interactional elements leading to and resulting from judgment. I also discuss implications for future research and policy relating to welfare.
2015_SOAN_06836432.pdf	2015	My Independent Study project explores refugee students’ views on higher education and the role educators play in developing these views. I hypothesized that the greater the knowledge and understanding that educators had of the refugee population and experience, the more impactful they would be on refugee students’ perspectives on higher education. I conducted my research by interviewing eighteen participants, nine refugees and nine educators who either graduated from or work for the same high school in a small New England city. The data shows that although refugee students often placed educators as their biggest influences in regards to their education, the educator sample believed parents and peers to play the biggest role on their perspectives on higher education. Furthermore, it was not enough to have supportive teachers, coaches, and school officials and policies in place to impact these perspectives – structured, college-readiness programs were the most beneficial to refugee students and their ability to navigate the college system. 
2015_SOAN_06859888.pdf	2015	"Colony collapse disorder, or the mysterious disappearance of worldwide honey bee populations, has upset the beekeeping community for the last six years. In this study, I use colony collapse disorder as a lens to better understand the beekeeping community’s attitudes towards the environment. This study consists of an analysis of nine interviews conducted with individuals involved in either beekeeping or pesticide regulation. I combine summaries of the pre-existing literature on colony collapse disorder along with several other environmental topics with the theoretical portion of this study to create a better conceptualization of concepts like risk society and eco-Marxism. These theories serve as the basis for the “results” chapter, in which I finally analyze the ideas expressed in the interviews. This study serves to not only better understand intricacies and attitudes of the beekeeping community, but to create a broad picture of the ways in which groups of people discuss an environmental function in peril.  "
2015_SOAN_06868195.pdf	2015	In recent years, there has been a shift towards more intensive parenting (Lareau, 2003; Nelson, 2010).  This can be observed in levels of parental involvement in the daily activities of children.  This project examines parental attitudes towards unsupervised and unstructured play.  The literature suggests that factors such as social class and the personality of the child affect parental supervision.  In this project, Ulrich Beck (1992) and Anthony Giddens’ (1999) theory of risk society is used in order to explore why there has been a shift in parental attitudes towards unsupervised and unstructured play.  Additionally, a symbolic interactionism framework is used to explore how people derive meaning about supervision during play.  Finally, this project explores how parents make decisions about their children’s play by using rational choice theory. Ten semi-structured interviews with parents from suburban, middle-class neighborhoods are conducted in order to explore the factors that parents consider when making decisions about structure and supervision.  The results indicate that there are multiple factors that influence parental attitudes.  These include the personality of the child, the previous experiences of the parents, and balancing the different needs of the child.  
2015_SOAN_06872850.pdf	2015	This research project aims to explore the micro-culture surrounding big game and trophy hunting as a sport within the United States. A review of scholarly literature and theoretical frameworks provide me with a foundation to begin my study. Through interviews with former hunters and content analysis of hunting outfitters’ websites, I was able to detect and analyze relevant themes that present themselves within this culture. I found that “nature and conservation,” “money and social class,” “hunting as a sport,” “rugged individualism,” and “masculinity and gender” were the most prevalent concepts surrounding big game and trophy hunting culture in the United States and provide readers with an investigation of these themes.
2015_SOAN_06874557.pdf	2015	"This research explores the role of the IOPA, a developmental NGO in northern Tanzania, by focusing specifically on the organization’s role as a secondary political institution and its relationship with stakeholders. In the midst of the divided scholarly debate concerning the role and future of developmental NGOs, this case study offers a clear example of a successful, community-based developmental organization. What makes this organization different from so many others that have failed to accomplish similar goals? I investigate the achievements of the IOPA’s social and economic development programs through participant observation and interviews conducted in Terrat Village with organization employees and local Maasai community members. This community represents a small percentage of the Maasai people; an Indigenous population historically marginalized and systematically excluded from the decision-making processes that impact Maasai culture and economic livelihoods. I found that the IOPA successfully influences community development by focusing on downward accountability towards non-donor stakeholders and empowering Maasai by incorporating stakeholders in democratic decision-making processes. This study draws on Easton’s model for the analysis of political systems and Freeman’s stakeholder theory to understand the role of the IOPA as an institution and the NGO-stakeholder relationship in a specific cultural context. The model of community development instituted by the IOPA should be used as a framework for other developmental NGOs, many of which engage in harmful stakeholder relationships and are therefore unable to institute long-term developmental progress."
2015_SOAN_06875307.pdf	2015	Museums are respected institutions that exist virtually everywhere, where people can go to learn about art, history, science, and a number of other topics. Recently, creation museums have gained popularity, further fueling the “evolution versus creation” debate in the United States. While there is some anthropological research on natural history and creation museums, few compare the two. This research examines the ways in which exhibitors at a natural history museum in northeast Ohio and a creation museum in northern Kentucky understand human origins, and how they subsequently display these interpretations to the public. I conducted three interviews at both museums as well as an in-depth content analysis of all labels pertaining to human origins and modern humans. This research also draws on Pierre Bourdieu’s theory of capital in relation to visitors’ and exhibitor’s experiences at museums. Although their views are drastically different, I found several themes shared between both museums which reflect their respective interpretations and display techniques.
2015_SOAN_06875383.pdf	2015	This research aims to investigate the role of non-government organizations (NGO) in regards to child vulnerability in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Haitian children are often the most vulnerable because they are still dependent on adult caretakers to provide for their basic needs. Using Paul Farmer’s theory of structural violence and Abraham Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, I strive to investigate whether the needs of Haitian children in the care of NGOs are being adequately met. What vulnerabilities do children face before they are taken into the care of NGOs? Do children gain agency after they are taken into NGO care? I explore these questions through participant observation and 12 interviews with Haitian NGO employees and Americans involved with the five NGOs observed. I found that although some NGOs may hinder Haitian children’s abilities to exhibit agency, NGOs observed strive to provide for their children because they believe children are the future of Haiti.
2015_SOAN_06877968.pdf	2015	"Minorities in the United States are often caught between two worlds, the culture of their family and ancestors and the culture they are living in today. Since minorities and internationally adopted Americans are either born or have spent the majority of their lives in the United States, many experience difficulty in feeling connected to their original culture. Even so, Asian Americans are considered to be minorities in the United States, regardless of birthplace and length of time in the country.  By using ten semi-structured, open-ended qualitative interviews to collect data, I explore the music preferences of 1.5+ generation and adopted Korean Americans and how these contribute to the ways they perceive themselves and their identity as a racial and ethnic minority in the United States.  Through employing a theoretical framework composed of the works of Omi and Winant (1986, 1994), Gans (1979), Waters (1996), Stets and Burke (2000), and Stryker (1994), I seek to answer the following research questions:  “What factors affect a person’s racial and ethnic identity?” and “Does a 1.5+ generation or adopted Korean American’s racial and ethnic identity affect their preferences in music?” In the end, I discovered many of the factors that encompass a person’s Korean American identity, and how their racial and ethnic identity affected their preferences of K-Pop music.  The more a person is exposed to Korean culture, the more likely they are to identify as Korean American.  The more a person identifies with their Korean culture, the more likely they are to listen to K-Pop music or have listened to the genre in the past. People who immigrate to a country prior to the age of twelve 
2015_SOAN_06878894.pdf	2015	Through a literary analysis of memoirs written by and about Latinos in the United States affected by drugs and addiction, this study seeks to investigate the representation of drugs and addiction and the portrayal of addict identity in US Latino culture. The sources examined were The Sum of Our Days, by Isabel Allende, Chicana Lives and Criminal Justice, by Juanita Díaz-Cotto, The Boy Kings of Texas, by Domingo Martinez, and It Calls You Back, by Luis J. Rodríguez. After reading these texts, four major themes were identified. Drugs were used as part of the identity of a larger family unit; prescription drugs were universally seen as unnecessary and hindering full personal expression; addiction impeded a person’s ability to succeed as they desired; certain drugs, used in isolated contexts, were able to aid in meditation and foster personal growth. This analysis proceeds with Erving Goffman’s theories on stigma and Sykes and Matza’s theories on rationalization of deviant activity as guides for examining the ways in which addict identities are formed. The core theme is that an addiction removes one’s capability to be an agent for one’s own benefit and the benefit of others, and to leave the role of an addict is to reclaim one’s individuality apart from a substance.
2015_SOAN_06880345.pdf	2015	Food insecurity and poverty are on the rise in America, and thus an exploration of the private response to these issues is ever more pressing. I conducted research at a food pantry in Wooster, OH to discover how private food assistance operations are run, and explore attitudes of volunteers and staff toward clients and poverty in general, using interviews and participant observation. The literature discussed in the study centers around the structural problems with private food assistance as a response to food insecurity, and the giver-receiver relationship between volunteers and clients at food pantries. I also use Paul Farmer’s theory of structural violence, Michael Katz’s historical accounting of moral categorization of the poor, the competing discourses surrounding Oscar Lewis’s culture of poverty, and Max Weber’s theory of bureaucracy as lenses to understand how our system of private aid has arisen, and the consequences that follow for its users. I found that volunteers and staff had complex responses to poverty and to clients at the pantry, shaped by compassion but also by judgment that results from American culture and from being responsible for distributing scarce resources.  
2015_SOAN_06880357.pdf	2015	The literature explores the relationship between peer influence and substance use behavior. However, the literature fails to examine peer influence on young adult substance use and whether gender differences exist of how peers influence those in this age group. This study addresses this gap in literature. Data was gathered through online distribution of surveys at a small liberal arts college in the Midwest and through interviews conducted with counselors at the college’s Wellness Center. These interviews were transcribed and analyzed to find patterns and form conclusions, while the surveys were open-coded to draw themes. The theoretical framework used provides an outline of contributors affecting deviant behavior as well as a model prevention program that incorporates an alternative mission to “just say no.” The findings suggest that females at the college are more open to talking about their substance use in relation to their peers’ influence than males. Evidence from the research of this study also suggests that a prevention program that both openly addresses substance use and is substance-specific would be the most beneficial on this college’s campus.
2015_SOAN_06880358.pdf	2015	There is a large body of research that confirms the diverse cultural backgrounds of patients in the United States, and their beliefs and expectations about medical treatment. Anthropological pioneer Arthur Rubel studied disease in Mexican-American populations to illustrate the differences in patients’ beliefs in regards to medicine throughout the United States. Further, the studies by Stronks and Galvez, and Good and Good show a strong need for culturally competent care in a changing medical environment. This study is an analysis of complementary and alternative medical practices in traditional biomedical hospital settings in six outpatient clinics around the United States. This study utilizes Farmer’s theory of structural violence and his critique of cultural relativism, Kleinman’s theory of The Explanatory Models Approach to culturally competent care, and Appadurai’s theory of various “scapes” and the movement of these scapes throughout different culture, marking a permeability of boundaries. In-depth interviews and on-site observation revealed that what physicians and other clinicians refer to as mind body practice is essential to a holistic approach of medicine. This study also demonstrates there is a lack of cultural competency training and care within these settings, in contrast to stated goals of the practice of integrative medicine. These results suggest implications for a global health model that accounts for the needs and expectations of patients of all cultures.
2015_SOAN_06880391.pdf	2015	The construction of black masculinity has been the focus of many studies (Cazenave, 1984;Ferguson, 2001). Often researchers examine the performance of black masculinity but only a few critique intuitional practices that influence the performance of black men. Confronting systemic inequality, and punitive social controls are necessary in studying black masculine role performance. This research examines black men’s understanding of external influences through the narratives of six men. This is an exploratory study of college-educated men from low socioeconomic neighborhoods, and men currently residing in low socioeconomic neighborhoods, to gauge perceptions of maneuverability of identity in and out of different spaces. I assess media portrayal, law enforcement practices, and experiences within institutions of education and local neighborhoods and communities’ influence on the construction, perception, and performance of black masculinity.
2015_SOAN_06880400.pdf	2015	Indigenous groups around the world have faced discrimination and assimilation into mainstream societies. They have struggled to maintain their native languages, their customs and traditions, as the world is becoming increasingly globalized and intertwined. The Mapuche, who make up the largest indigenous group in Chile, are no exception. 18 members of the Paillao Mapu Mapuche community in southern Chile engaged in a Photovoice project to explore the different factors that affect one’s identity within the Mapuche culture in modern-day Chile. By conducting cross-generation research among community members with different languages, religions, hobbies and histories, the photographs express the parts of one’s identity that are important, and reveal a truth about what it means to be Mapuche. 
2015_SOAN_06880447.pdf	2015	Burning Man is a festival that has been rapidly growing and changing since its small inception at Baker Beach, California. Over the past 30 years the festival morphed into a booming cultural icon where every year 70,000 attendees make their way to the Black Rock Desert in Nevada. While there have been studies, articles, and films about Burning Man, this research functions to provide an in-depth examination and discussion of the cultural practices and messages at the festival and what this may tell us about our society outside of the event. Through ethnographic methods and a theoretical lens, this research examines gifting, sociability, play, art, spirituality and capitalism’s economic influence on the event. I conclude that Burning Man is a spectacle and a reactionary microcosm of our society, but that it is ultimately still a special place where art and play can flourish. 
2015_SOAN_06880473.pdf	2015	This paper examines the motivations, goals, and expectations of the voluntourists and how these pre-determined attitudes impact the host community members. I utilize interviews and participant observation to measure how the volunteer’s attitudes affect the overall experience of the host community through a qualitative case study. An important part of my study focuses on the sale of voluntourism as a commodity and how this affects the exchanges between the voluntourists, the host community, and the organizations. I construct a theoretical framework by combining the theories of commodification, recognition, and reciprocity. Under the current neoliberal regime, money can be made from anything and everything. Even the act of doing service has been commodified. Volunteering has melded with the tourism industry, forming a complex type of alternative tourism that is heatedly debated. I argue that voluntourism’s negative stigma has pushed organizations to better define their commodity, and as a result the volunteers become more aware of their position in the host community. Voluntourists must accept their role as simply an extra set of helping hands. In doing so, the host community members and voluntourists are able to maintain a healthy relationship in which both parties understand the reciprocal exchange. In order to truly ‘make a difference,’ volunteers must acknowledge their true motives for participation and ensure that the recipient communities do not feel a sense of shame, humiliation, or inferiority as a result of the exchange. The best volunteers approach their voluntourism experience with few expectations – simply the desire to learn and help.
2015_SOAN_06880475.pdf	2015	The role of the peer group is essential in the construction and maintenance of masculinity.  Oftentimes, gender-deviant behavior is met with peer rebuke and social sanctions, through which men police the gendered behavior of their peers.  This research project aims to explore common ways that college-aged men gender police one another.  Understanding ways in which the gender order is reproduced and undermined can help point to ways a more egalitarian concept of masculinities can be constructed.  Three focus-group interviews were conducted of 6-8 male college students belonging to three clubs: a sports team, a fraternity group, and a performance-based group at small liberal arts school.  Additionally, three follow-up personal interviews were conducted.  The two most frequently referenced forms of gender policing were teasing through name-calling and storytelling of hook ups.  Examples of gender policing in this study included homophobic and misogynistic language in response to behavior that does not align with the hegemonic ideal of what is masculine.  Policing masculinity through the use of misogynistic and homophobic language perpetuates and reinforces a hegemonic definition of masculinity that oppresses women and marginalizes some men.  The performance-based group suggests a potential for redefining masculinity by blurring subordinate and hegemonic masculinities.
2015_SOAN_06880564.pdf	2015	This project explores how parents choose between private, public, and charter schools. Recent years have seen an increase in charter schools, particularly in urban areas. This complicates parent decision making parents choose schools that are close to home and are predominantly of their own race (Kleitz, Weiher, Tedin, Matland, 2000). Previous research indicates that minority and low income homes have different preferences for schools than Whites and high income homes (Weiher, Tedin, 2002). This project was conducted through nine in-depth interviews with parents who have elementary aged children enrolled in charter, private or public schools in Atlanta, Georgia. Symbolic Interactionism, Conflict Theory, and Rational Choice Theory were used to help interpret the data. The five most prevalent themes that emerged from the data were, location, educational quality, safety, race, and prioritization of factors. The findings suggest that parents think they are making rational decisions by weighing out different factors. In truth, however, parental priorities are not often clear and are based in their prior experiences as well as word-of-mouth knowledge.
2015_SOAN_06880717.pdf	2015	This study aims to identify methods of administering peace education through community organizations. Structural violence is the exclusion of individuals from participation in their society. This exclusion is present in institutionalized education and is part of perpetuating the culture of violence. Institutionalized education teaches young citizens how to take submissive roles in society through excluding learners from the content. Changing educational practices to include learners in their education prepares citizens to take active roles in shaping the structures that govern them. Community organizations have the potential to make these changes through administering peace education in a setting where peaceful interactions can also be practiced. The two organizations compared in this study are the Thomas Merton Center and its project, the New Economy Campaign, whose mission is to facilitate worker-owned co-ops in the Pittsburgh area, and Westminster Presbyterian Church, a socially active church in Wooster, Ohio. Both use peace education methods to improve structural and interpersonal peace. Both challenge structural violence through various methods of integrating the community into the organization’s mission, allowing citizens to take control of their governance.
2015_SOAN_06880750.pdf	2015	The Knights Templar exist in the modern day in organizations who can easily be found on the web. These contemporary groups have reclaimed the legacy of the historic Knights Templar as their own. This persona is publicly portrayed on their websites and constructed using understood symbols and concepts of the past. This construction also seeks to connect the modern to the historical for prestige and legitimacy, to make the persona concrete. This process is understood primarily through the theories of Eric Hobsbawm and Victor Turner, and illuminated with content analysis upon a selection of webpages.
2015_SOAN_06881141.pdf	2015	Shame is a complex and powerful emotion comprised of cultural expectations, societal norms, and identity associations, which has the capacity to challenge individual notions of identity and influence behavior. This Independent Study investigates how students at The College of Wooster understand, experience, and navigate shame and analyzes how past and present experiences of shame manifest themselves in students becoming crucial components of their identities. It also explores the relationship between the individual and the institution in order to understand how shame is exerted interpersonally, institutionally, and structurally. The thesis focused on three major themes: how students define and conceptualize shame, how shame shapes identity, and the role shame plays in the small college context. Using original data from 644 surveys and 16 in-depth interviews, it was found that shame is conceptualized differently for each student, but notions of inadequacy and questions of worthiness were crucial to all and that shame plays a very specific and unique role in this environment because of the small student body, relatively isolated geographic location, residential atmosphere, rigorous academic workload, and constant social interaction. Ultimately, this study found that shame is important component of The College of Wooster student experience and greatly influences students’ ability to thrive.
2015_SOAN_06881649.pdf	2015	The concept of masculinity is a tough one to understand and explain. It is extremely tough on young men trying to figure out who they are in the world. This study focuses on examining the ways in which young men of color (Black and Latino) define masculinity and how that affects their definition of personal success both within and outside an academic environment. Using the concepts of hegemonic masculinity (Connell 2005) along with the general theme of masculinity (Kimmel 2008) as a base of comparison I evaluate how young men of color view masculinity. I spent two weeks at a private institution in which I observed students and conducted 17 interviews with students in grades 7-12. By conducting in-depth interviews on topics such as: defining masculinity for men of color, the responsibilities of men of color, and how school experiences impact/influence one’s identity, I discuss how these young men engage others through a lens of performance (Goffman 1956, West and Zimmerman 1987). By analyzing the data found from the interviews and participant observation I break down what masculinity is to these students, how they perform masculinity and how an educational environment can impose a hyperawareness of their masculinity in their academics. Ultimately, I find that these young men suffer from the ideals and stereotypes that are placed on all men of color and as a result there is a need for familiarity in academic environments in which students can see positive examples of themselves and have someone to connect with racially, ethnically and culturally.
2015_SOAN_06881778.pdf	2015	Access to fair and equal education is one of the most pressing issues of our time. The U.S. educational system is one of the most unequal systems in the developed world. Students routinely receive dramatically different learning opportunities based on their race, resources available to them, and their achievement. This major social problem has prompted the creation of organizations dedicated to addressing the needs of and improving educational outcomes for students from under-resourced districts. I will examine the efforts of one such organization, specifically looking at how issues of racial inequality, resource scarcity, and student achievement are addressed by the organization and its model.
2015_SOAN_06882194.pdf	2015	"This study seeks to understand how urban redevelopment efforts in Detroit reflect spatial politics and residents’ quality of life and vision for their community. Acknowledging that the spatial is composed of multiple dynamic components, my research employs a symbolic interactionist framework, in which the significance of social-spatial symbols is critically analyzed in assessment of redevelopment attitude and activity. I specifically focus on how details of a neighborhoods’ social-spatial fabric may encourage or discourage residents from initiating and participating in redevelopment activity. The work explores redevelopment activity in the context of ""unreal estate"" spaces in which the purpose and definition of the space is ""open"" leaving room for potential re-identification and activation initiated by residents as opposed to more conventional and powerful development actors. Drawing from grounded theory, my research takes a placed-based approach employing photographic visual methodologies, critical awareness observation, and semi-structured interviews, to gauge the development perspectives of residents, founders and corporate developers and to assess these perspectives against a structural, spatial backdrop. This paper identifies dynamic, interrelated factors including one’s identity as a ""true Detroiter"" and resource constraints, that may affect how likely residents are to carry out redevelopment activity and what that activity will amount to. My work also suggest that residents who are able to directly develop space may feel a sense of re-enchantment as their efforts may result in the actualization of their community vision."
2015_SOAN_07338358.pdf	2015	"The research questions whether the Great Recession has impacted job opportunities of young adults with a university education. Data was gathering using a survey of recent and older College of Wooster alumni. The survey inquiries into job hunting methods, field of employment, greatest assets as a job candidate and other variables. Afterwards, I analyzed the results with Functionalism and Generational Theory. For Functionalism, I relied on Parson’s AGIL model with an emphasis on adaptation and latent pattern maintenance for my research. A functionalist lens reveals that the Great Recession was harsh but people have established equilibrium in the job market so the Great Recession was not as bleak as some scholars and media have portrayed it. Equilibrium was achieved by people being more proactive when job hunting. This proactivity is by widening the locations alumni would consider moving to for work, the type of job one pursues or simply applying to more places and earlier than previous generations. Generational Theory argues that job prospects will fluctuate between generations so the Great Recession is not significant in the long term. However the Great Recession is significant as it shapes people’s perceptions about job prospects. By creating an atmosphere with little hope, the Great Recession has bonded a generation in their concern for their futures and made generational cohorts competitive for work. This competition includes networking, refining resumes, job fair graduate school and bilingualism. "
2015_SOAN_07866076.pdf	2015	Within the past few months, Gov. John Kasich has ordered the creation of the Ohio Collaborative Community-Policy Advisory Board to create the first statewide standards for police use of force. This project examines the history that surrounds police brutality in regards to the power and class struggles that occur between the upper and lower class, the micro factors that influence an officer’s decision-making process and how individual factors such as department culture and officer influence effect an officer's ability to determine what the legitimate and illegitimate use of force is appropriate in a given scenario. Using Social Conflict Theory, Symbolic Interactionism and Control Balance Theory, a framework is provided to examine a modern interpretation of police violence. In-depth interviews were conducted with members of the Wooster Police Department to gain an understanding as to how the new standards would affect the department and to also gain an understanding of the department’s policy towards the use of force and community policing practices.  The interviews were transcribed and analyzed with codes from the literature and theory chapters of this research. The findings suggest that the standards in place at the Wooster Police Department exceed the standards set by the task force and do a better job at monitoring the use of force that their officers engage in daily. 
2016_SOAN_08278113.pdf	2016	" This research aims to investigate how community members’ demographic factors affect their perception of and sentiments towards the community of La Parguera, Puerto Rico. A once thriving fishing village on the Southwestern Coast, Parguera has now become a bustling tourist hub due to its distinctive Bioluminescent Bay and mangrove cays; the shift in the dominant industry has also brought about significant social change, favoring those involved in tourist development. The study is informed by literature on the consequences of tourism in Puerto Rico and Parguera and incorporates the theories of Alienation, Capital and Communitarian Solidarity as frameworks through which we can understand and analyze the effects tourism has had on La Parguera. Through an ethnographic approach, this study determines which demographic factors may serve as indicators of positive or negative perceptions of a community’s progress; ultimately, those with greater investment in Parguera’s history view changes as divisive and unsustainable, while those with tourist involvement view the change as progressive and necessary for economic vitality. This study concludes with a recommendation for an inclusive moral model the community can adopt for a more sustainable, dynamic future. 
2016_SOAN_08290180.pdf	2016	This study investigates the process of reentry after prison for women in Wooster, Ohio, using theories of morality and punishment by Durkheim and Foucault, general strain theory by Broidy and Agnew, and intersectionality by Hill Collins. Both quantitative and qualitative data was collected to gain a broad understanding of this particular court system and the people involved in it. Statistics on the people sentenced to prison through this court from January 2012 to October 2015 were gathered and analyzed to learn of the demographics of those sentenced to prison and how different backgrounds, especially gender, affect the charge and sentence length. To supplement this, interviews were conducted with four women in the process of reentry, as well as three staff members of the courthouse. The results revealed that despite the fact that many women sentenced to prison come from marginalized backgrounds, prison programs and a supportive probation department have aided successful reentry.
2016_SOAN_08292630.pdf	2016	"Being a relatively new phenomenon, sustainable tourism presents a multitude of problems that must be researched. In my time on the Island of Ometepe, I aimed to find out how foreign-run, seemingly environmentally-friendly tourist locations interacted with the local people. In the literature I found that sustainable tourism is a complex matter; prone to both true possibility and dreadful potentialities. I draw heavily on the theories of neoliberalism from Harvey and Foucault. I additionally look at how ecocommunitarians would address the problem of sustainable tourism. My research pointed very obviously to the fact that the location I lived in and studied was a strong example of failed sustainable tourism. The business-first model it employed served to alienate locals from tourists. The only interaction which connected the two groups was via economic means. Most importantly, the tourist location was not community focused. The community-first model of sustainable tourism allows for mutual ownership and a greater distribution of benefits. Likewise, the environmentally sustainable aspects of the community were simply non-existent past a surface level environmentality. In the end, I offer recommendations for how the tourism site and the local people could work together towards achieving some level of sustainable tourism. Unfortunately, it might be too late to right all the wrongs. This study provides an insight into the functioning of businesses in modernity and should allow the reader to see how various businesses employ the same business-first model. "
2016_SOAN_08292996.pdf	2016	"Professional football is the most popular sport in the United States and to understand this sport and the role it plays in American society, I investigated the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio (Rovell, ""NFL Most Popular for 30th,"" ESPN). The Hall of Fame is a museum that preserves and presents the history of professional football and honors the men who have played a significant role in the sport. The purpose of this investigation is to understand the role the Pro Football Hall of Fame plays, and its position in American culture. My analysis has indicated three major themes: the Hall of Fame as a museum, as a pilgrimage site with religious components, and the themes of “family” and “community”. The Hall of Fame functions as a museum as it preserves and displays history and highlights the professional football community’s identity and values. It has become a pilgrimage site for fans seeking a connection to the men inducted into the Hall of Fame who have become “saints”. Additionally, there are several shrines within the Hall that highlight ultimate attainment in professional football and the immortalization of Hall of Fame inductees through bronze busts. The Hall of Fame both creates and reinforces the pro football community and is a place for families to visit for a shared experience, pass on traditions, and to connect with fictive kin. The Pro Football Hall of Fame is important because it serves as a site that displays football and American culture, expresses its values, and creates a sense of community and identity."
2016_SOAN_08297866.pdf	2016	Aside from reality television, which often depicts former Amish as raucous partiers, many documentaries and memoirs portray ex-Amish as runaways, leaving in the night with nothing but the clothes on their back. As the gap between “the world” and the Amish closes, how accurate is this portrayal of leaving the Amish for the roughly 15% who choose to leave? How do ex-Amish negotiate the transition from Amish to English (non-Amish) life? This study, based on interviews with former Amish, explores the difficult decision to leave the Amish church as well as the challenges of transitioning into English life and negotiating an ex-role. Drawing on Victor Turner’s concept of liminality, Pierre Bourdieu’s theory of capital, and Ebaugh’s model of role exit, I explore the multiple and conflicting meanings of leaving an ethnoreligious group. The findings suggest that the current literature on ex-Amish fails to capture the diversity of former Amish experiences, as more liberal Amish in the sample typically had a smoother transition into English life. However, this study shows that issues of embodied cultural capital and a state of liminality persist long after one has exited a role in an ethnoreligious group.
2016_SOAN_08303383.pdf	2016	Economic, social and environmental issues have been linked to industrial agriculture, prompting public disapproval and demand for an alternative approach. This study investigates Local Roots, a for-profit local food cooperative, in an attempt to understand why participation in alternative food networks (AFNs) is increasing, how such participation meets both social and material needs of individuals, and what effects this might have on the larger community. To answer these questions I conducted twelve interviews with Local Roots founders, producers and volunteers, seven months of participant observation at Local Roots and a survey of customers. I found that Local Roots is both an economic and a social entity, which at times struggles to balance these two forces. The theorist Mark Granovetter describes this as social embeddedness and I apply his theory to my results. Through its social dimensions, the co-op aids in the development of personal relationships between members. The theorist Robert Putnam values such relationships because they increase social capital, or networks of connections between people. The social ties that Local Roots fosters impact the social and economic fabric of the Wooster community. There is room for further investigation into the various structures of AFNs and the degrees to which they influence their communities.
2016_SOAN_08303568.pdf	2016	This independent study encompasses the theme of ethnic identity and the identification process of second generation Salvadoran-Americans, which are the U.S.-born children of Salvadoran immigrants who now reside in the U.S. What kind of identities are these second generation Salvadoran-Americans pulling towards? What factors are contributing to this process and to what extent? These children, now adults, were raised in an in-between place, which, I will argue, makes it difficult to grasp a true identity of who they are and how they fit into this world. In this American context, there are many factors that influence someone of color and how they choose to identify with consideration to factors such as discrimination, cultural pride, bilingualism, and the never ending battle with ethnic authenticity. Living as a minority within another minority creates challenges for this Salvadoran-American community within the larger Mexican population and is often a difficult space to navigate through regardless of racial context. As a child of a Salvadoran father and an American mother, I have pulled from personal interests and my own challenges with my Salvadoran-American identity. With this project, I hope to open a new dialogue for a population that is often overlooked. Drawing from interviews with eight Salvadoran-Americans, I explore the implications that their experiences within the American context hold for this group as well as for the larger community.
2016_SOAN_08306377.pdf	2016	The purpose of the research is to understand the varied life histories and experiences of a paternal immigrant family. The research investigates the question: What are the immigrant generational differences of a paternal family in regards to acclimation? The study is informed by literature on Afro-Caribbean immigration to the United States that reviews assimilation and identity as well as the occupation and economy for immigrants of color. The research is analyzed through two schools of thought centered in the social sciences: 1) segmented assimilation, that provides a better outlook on how immigrants of today assimilate into the American society, and 2) tridimensional acculturation that explains the adaptations or the borrowing of traits from another culture. This ethnography of an immigrant family, included participant observation of two family events and oral life history of each individual from different generations.  The study concludes that acclimation for an immigrant of color is based upon the individual’s characteristics: gender, class, physical appearance, etc., which creates different outcomes for each person. Further research is needed to explore organizations that work with immigrants to combat or enhances the experiences in acclimation.
2016_SOAN_08319989.pdf	2016	The biological process of childbirth is universal, but how a person enters the world reflects social, political, and medical patterns. This study explores the recent implementation of birthing centers designed for Amish patients that provide expectant mothers with advanced healthcare in a context that aligns with their religious lifestyle. The dominant discourse surrounding pregnancy and childbirth, ranging from popular advice literature to the laws regulating and criminalizing improper behavior, categorize pregnancy as a medical event that places doctors as the ultimate authority. Based on participant observation in one birthing center and six interviews with the midwives and nurses who work there, I explore how Amish patients and medical professionals navigate the intersection between modern healthcare and religious and cultural beliefs. I found that the pregnancies of Amish women are becoming increasingly medicalized, but place their church and families, rather than doctors, as the authority.
2016_SOAN_08337440.pdf	2016	Drug courts first originated 27 years ago with the purpose to serve as an alternative option to help individuals who are struggling with drug addiction. The way society has handled drug addiction has drastically changed throughout history. Strict laws have led to punishment, but recently, there has been a slow shift in how society approaches addiction, which has led to more support for treatment as opposed to punitive action. My Independent Study uses one court as a case study to examine whether drugs courts are functional in the context of treating addiction and how they are working to meet the goals of the court and of the individual. Comparing and contrasting the program manual and interviews with courthouse officials, I closely examine exactly how the drug court implements the process. Emile Durkheim, Howard Becker, and Joseph Gusfield are the theorists that I use to help explain my findings. The results of my study indicate that this particular drug court succeeds in reaching high levels of accountability and individualism for the participants; however, the drug court as an institution should reconsider the structure in order to better benefit a wider range of people struggling with addiction.
2016_SOAN_08351206.pdf	2016	This thesis examines Highland Games in the Southern United States as an active performance of culture for Southern Scottish Americans. In order to understand Highland Games as a performance, they are also analyzed through Victor Turner’s understanding of a ritual, made up of powerful multivocal symbols and liminality. I used participant observation and interviews—formal and informal—to understand how Highland Games are a ritual performance that reflects the culture of Southern Scottish Americans. I analyzed this data by contrasting it with existing literature and analyzing it through the lens of theories by Gwen Kennedy Neville and Victor Turner. Existing analysis of Highland Games considers them a celebration of heritage. I argue that while Highland Games are, indeed, a celebration of heritage, here is more to the Games than just heritage celebration. Highland Games in the Southern United States provide meaning for Southern Scottish Americans, inform their identities, and reflect their culture in a powerful, meaningful way.
2016_SOAN_08352628.pdf	2016	Have you ever had a popular song stuck in your head that you really didn’t like? If so, you may have asked yourself, what about that song made it so catchy, and why it was so popular? In the music industry today, there are a countless number of artists strewn across many different genres, but the artists that are considered the most popular at any given time generally seem to sound the same. Many wonder what the reasoning for this is, and why these big artists’ new songs always seem to permeate the general public. The music industry is just that: an industry. It is a business that is built to run as optimally as possible. This raises yet another question: how might the creativity of artists affected by outside influence? In this study, I will examine how consumer culture affects music as a cultural product.
2016_SOAN_08381666.pdf	2016	This ethnographic and interview-based study explores how queer Latinx lowriders create community through art, such as The Q Sides, an exhibition of photographs by Vero Majano, Kari Orvik, and DJ Brown Amy. Both lowrider culture and the queer Latinx community are marginalized communities that are often silenced, ignored, and not included in historical preservation or well documented. Lowrider culture and the queer Latinx community have largely been explored separately, such as ethnographer Ben Chappell and interdisciplinary scholar Michael Hames-García. My Senior Independent Study project examines the unique intersection of the queer Latinx experience in lowrider culture in the context of women of color feminist theory. My study employs activist scholarship and collaborative ethnographic methods to document the experience of the queer Latinx lowrider participants in The Q-Sides. My study highlights the ways that queer Latinx lowriders create space for their narrative through community dialogues and claiming their narrative in lowrider culture through The Q-Sides photography series.
2016_SOAN_08385474.pdf	2016	My research project seeks to understand how the presentation of homelessness in the United States impacts the ability to design and deliver social services to this vulnerable population. Existing scholarship on this topic addresses how media presents homelessness in a negative manner. This research is unique in that it seeks to explore the service delivery implications linked to those stigmatizing images. I adopt a sociological perspective in my project to address the societal conception of homelessness through the proxy of media. In addition to a comprehensive literature review, my project utilizes two qualitative content analysis methods: an analysis of twenty-five films featuring homelessness and thirteen in-depth interviews with social workers employed at a large research medical center. This investigation suggests that the experience of homelessness is cast as a personal problem opposed to a structural issue leading to a lack of public empathy towards the undomiciled. The public belief that homeless individuals are personally responsible for their condition stems from capitalist values found in the American culture. Capitalism evokes a public perception of equal economic opportunity and therefore homelessness results in societal apathy and/or diminished empathy. In turn these tenets negatively impact public interest in developing effective social services to the undomiciled.
2016_SOAN_08386348.pdf	2016	This Independent Study focuses on the interviews I conducted of undocumented Latina women in Chicago. I analyzed the interviews along with researching the sociocultural context to discuss the challenges they navigate in their everyday lives. The interviews and the sociocultural context are then utilized to devise a performance. Through the analysis of Victor Turners theory, performing ethnography, along with theatre scholars of Augusto Boal and Jan Cohen-Cruz, discusses the significance of story telling and the mechanism of using the interviews as an essential tool in understanding a social or cultural group. Other performance works done by Anna Devere Smith, E. Patrick Johnson and Tectonic Theatre Project, the techniques they offer will be used in order to explain the choices I made when devising my performance. The overall end product of this I.S. is my production titled “No Estoy Aquí” presented at Shoolroy Theatre at the College of Wooster.
2016_SOAN_08386429.pdf	2016	This Independent Study explores the restaurant foodscape in the rural city of Wessex, Ohio and examines how two different sets of restaurants in this foodscape identify themselves as emblematic of the city. Restaurants opened in Wessex over the last ten years that have been selected for inclusion on Wessex Food Tours comprise the first set of restaurants examined. These restaurants are a curated set of local businesses that Wessex Food Tours presents to visitors as representative of a rejuvenated, contemporary Wessex. The other set of restaurants examined are those restaurants that have existed in Wessex for over 50 years, but are not included on the food tours. While not included on the food tours, these older restaurants are deeply embedded in the city’s history and remain a quintessential component in the city’s restaurant foodscape. This study investigates how the older restaurants and tour restaurants both attest to be representative of Wessex through the foods served and the dining spaces created. In order to understand how each set of restaurants envisions themselves as illustrative of Wessex’s food culture, I conducted participant observation on the Wessex Food Tours and at the older restaurants. Additionally, I conducted nine formal interviews with representatives from both sets of restaurants and the owner and manager of Wessex Food Tours. Lastly, I completed content analysis of menus from both sets of restaurants. Employing a symbolic anthropological perspective, I found that food culture in Wessex is a multivocal and polysemic dominant symbol surrounded by a spectrum of referents. Both sets of restaurants manipulate these referents, such as heritage, home, nostalgia, family, local, and community, in their production of Wessex food culture.
2016_SOAN_08386715.pdf	2016	With mass incarceration as one of the most important issues plaguing the United States, one related factor is almost always forgotten: felon disenfranchisement. Felon disenfranchisement is the loss of voting rights after a person is convicted of a felony. In 2010, felon disenfranchisement denied voting access to over 5.8 million Americans. With this issue being so widespread, it is difficult to believe that it is rarely discussed in politics. In order for politicians to make informed decisions for their residents, it is important that they know their constituents’ personal beliefs about a topic. However, with felon disenfranchisement not being talked about, and public opinion not being recorded adequately, it becomes difficult for politicians to properly represent this issue to the people who elect them. The focus of my study is to gather information on important aspects of felon voting, and reasoning behind felon disenfranchisement. Through Labeling Theory, Theory of Stigmatization, Social Contract Theory, and the Theory of Punishment, I was able to analyze the issue of felon disenfranchisement through a sociological lens. Through this study, I hope to contribute new data on public opinion surrounding felon disenfranchisement, and help inform the public of such an important issue.
2016_SOAN_08386735.pdf	2016	Over the past few decades, American parents and students have increasingly been positioned as consumers of education, expected to make well informed choices within an educational marketplace. Charter schools are one widely-marketed offering, compared to traditional public schools in ideologically charged literature which drives a wedge between schools and the students within while largely neglecting the voices of teachers. This study will examine the ways in which educators have come to understand this new landscape of educational choice. Through the analysis of eleven in-depth interviews with Chicago educators, I explore the following: How do public and charter school educators view and navigate the neoliberal turn in American education? Drawing upon David Harvey’s critique of neoliberalism and Michael Apple’s discussion of the market model of education, I examine educators’ views of the competition and privatization which have permeated Chicago’s education system. Additionally, I engage Pierre Bourdieu’s “Forms of Capital,” analyzing the ways in which educators view the role of institutionalized cultural capital when making career decisions. Educators’ stories serve to complicate the charter-public debate, as teachers from both school types disapprove of the race for achievement and largely view charter schooling as ineffective educational reform. This study’s contributors reflect on the disconnect between those in schools and those writing education policy, delineating the ways in which the charter school movement has come to impede the ideals of public education in Chicago. This study calls for the respect and trust which educators deserve, starting with the institution of an elected school board in Chicago as a means of creating communication and collaboration among the city’s educators and politicians.
2016_SOAN_08386805.pdf	2016	The Chinese army invaded the nation of Tibet in 1959, under the pretext of liberating a backwards people from their masters. They began an efficient genocide of Tibetan people and their culture that continues to the present day. The persecuted Tibetans fled to neighboring countries, and eventually the rest of the world, seeking to escape the harsh regime that had been imposed on them. There are now an estimated 150,000 exiled Tibetans around the world, each acutely aware of the decline of their culture in its home. (SaveTibet.org). The pressure Tibetan refugees feel to preserve their culture and fight for the independence of their people back home is incredible. This unnatural pressure is placed on top of the ordinary struggles all migrants face in finding an identity in a new home. The ultimate response of US Tibetan refugees to this burden has been a split into a mainstream Tibetan culture, essentialized to a simple message designed to engender Western support, and a hidden back stage world of Tibetan culture in which the difficulties and complexities of exiled life are truly faced.
2016_SOAN_08386910.pdf	2016	Throughout the world, in academic, public, and private institutions, immigration has become a dominant social problem worthy of heavy attention and examination. In the United States, immigration has been steadily increasing. The unlawful immigration of unaccompanied minors has also increased. Unaccompanied minor immigration, for the most part, is consistent with humanitarian refugee crisis. In this senior thesis, I discuss the counter-narrative that the United States has created in order to downplay and undermine the surge of Central American unaccompanied minor immigration that it has recently experienced. Furthermore, I examine federal agent and attorney perceptions of Central American unaccompanied minors and their immigration situation. First, I provide background information on immigration policies and forms of relief for unaccompanied minors. This is followed by an overview of research on public perceptions of the effects of immigration and unaccompanied minors. Drawing on various theories, I provide a framework by which we can understand how immigration is perceived in the United States. I then describe research I conducted with Customs and Border Patrol agents and immigration attorneys, which indicates that federal agents are uninformed about the unaccompanied minor situation, negatively perceive vulnerable victims, and have blind obedience to authority. My research also indicates that immigration attorneys are impressed by unaccompanied minors, have conflicting feelings because of work and personal beliefs, and are willing to change occupations because of the intense physical and psychological nature of their job. In addition, I suggest ways to improve federal agent perceptions through informing and educating agents, as well exposing agents to literature pertaining to social workers, case workers, and immigration attorneys.
2016_SOAN_08386932.pdf	2016	Why do some people hold more antipathy towards police officers than others? This study investigates how U.S. citizens’ perceptions of police officers differ by skin tone. My research question, “Is one’s skin tone related to their perceptions of police authority?” is explored through past literature on the history of the criminal justice system’s treatment of people of color. By building a theoretical framework using Joe Feagin’s theory of systemic racism, Eduardo Bonilla-Silva’s Latin Americanization thesis, and Erving Goffman’s stigma theory, I argue that African Americans with darker skin tones hold more negative perceptions of police officers than those with lighter skin tones. The results did not clearly indicate that darker skin tones are directly correlated to greater antipathy towards police officers. However, this study did find that African American respondents with the lightest skin color are the most satisfied with police protection, while African American respondents with the darkest skin color are the most dissatisfied with police protection.
2016_SOAN_08386971.pdf	2016	This research examines how hula is used in Christian churches on the island of Oʻahu, Hawaiʻi. To do this, I interviewed five Christian hula ministry leaders and one church official from different denominations of Christianity about their experiences with hula in their churches, in addition to using participant observation to see how two of the represented churches rehearsed and performed their hula. I use Edward Bruner’s (1983) theory of “dialogic narration” and Judith L. Hanna’s (1979) theory of dance as a system of communication to examine three simultaneous and conflicting narratives concerning hula in Hawaiʻi, those being the popular culture narrative, the Native Hawaiian narrative, and the Christian Hawaiian narrative. Further, I found that my contributors’ views hula and its connection to ancient Hawaiian religion can be placed on a continuum from traditional Hawaiian to Christian fundamentalist, which correlate to most accepting of combining Hawaiian religion with their Christian denomination to least accepting. I conclude by explaining these conflicting narratives in relation to Victor Turner’s theory of “multivocal symbols.”
2016_SOAN_08387160.pdf	2016	This study examines how women of color throughout various artistic and academic communities employ performative practices to articulate how subaltern voices embody and address issues of social justice. The research examines the relationship between performance and academia, exploring how the artists’ messages are shaped in the public and private spheres. There is a discussion on the ability of performance to be more than its general definition of stage and audience, allowing for a performative scholarship to emerge. Through this research, I examine how art is culturally important to the survival of marginalized peoples, particularly for people of color. The importance of the history of art forms such as dance, spoken word, theatre, music, etc. is shown in the ways some groups of color maintain their cultural identity within this color designated society. From that socio-historical support emerges a community of artists, scholars, and activists who are fighting against social injustices. This project also seeks to find ways in which social science fields can increase their use of performative experience to aid the dialogue about social justice. As a tangible example of the ideas discussed throughout this research, I created an immersive spoken word piece to provide an audience with the opportunity to see and feel this rhetoric as it is happening.
2016_SOAN_08387182.pdf	2016	This Independent Study regards the ways in which the Japanese American population faced social injustices on behalf of the United States government following the attack of Pearl Harbor. Despite official reports attesting to this minority’s innocence and overall disconnect from the Imperial Nation of Japan, the government continued to claim a fear of espionage and attack from those of Japanese descent on the west coast. The resulting action taken by the government was the ratification of Executive Order 9066, which relocated all those of Japanese ancestry to relocation centers, or internment camps. I will discuss how their “shikata ga nai” mindset shaped their experience as a whole, how they navigated questions of self-identity in a country that hated them, reacted to the WRA’s attempts of Americanization, and ultimately, how their plight relates to that of modern Muslim Americans.
2016_SOAN_08388885.pdf	2016	"Recent growth in Amish-themed tourism has created increased exposure and new intersections between Amish and non-Amish worlds. Research has focused on negative impacts of tourism in commodifying Amish culture that is assumed to be agricultural and homogenous, while neglecting views of Amish who encourage and participate in tourism. This research explores how Amish business owners are co-producing tourist encounters, how they use and view Amish branding, and how they perceive the impact of tourism on the Amish culture. I investigate Amish perceptions through interviews and participant observation with primarily Amish business owners in Holmes County, Ohio. This study draws on Alexis Bunten’s analysis of self-commodification and Edward Bruner’s transformation of self in tourist settings and analysis of co-production in touristic borderzones. I use their theories to understand Amish business owners’ participation in tourism, how they are co-producing the tourist encounter, and how tourism affects their perceptions of the world and their own identities. As Amish embrace tourism, they are redefining the long-standing value of “separation from the world.” Amish business owners contribute to the far-reaching transformation of the Holmes County settlement. Although some Amish business owners recognize the potential negative effects tourism brings to the community, they continue to co-produce the process of tourism to a great degree through advertising and performances. Furthermore, my research shows that Amish business owners were surprisingly positive about the impacts tourism has on their community. Though they have entered edges of the touristic borderzone, they have maintained a personal sphere sharply separate from outside influences, while recognizing that the meaning of “separation from the world” has shifted due to tourism. Amish business owners have been able to negotiate tourism in a way that confirms their identity positively as both Amish and Christian, and contributes to a stronger sense of identity."
2016_SOAN_08389666.pdf	2016	The color red is widely used in Chinese culture. This thesis, based on ethnographic research conducted in the Chinese immigrant community in New York City, aims to offer an analytical and narrative record of Chinese immigrants’ practices of the color red in three different spheres: traditional rituals, Christian practices, and political fields. This paper answer the following questions: What role does the color red play in Chinese culture? How does the color red works in different rituals to influence Chinese community? How does communist party influence Chinese immigrant people’s impression of the color red?
2017_SOAN_09791006.pdf	2017	This study will look at how the idea of hegemonic masculinity impacts the male football player and shapes their idea of what it means to be a man. Through an analysis of semi-structured focus groups and semi-structured individual interviews of a recognized NCAA division three football team, multiple themes emerged as to how hegemonic masculinity has shaped the idea for what it means to be man for these male athletes. Broadly speaking, these themes concern self identity, the way in which a football player presents himself and is perceived by others, and their presentation of gender and masculinity. Once the data was collected and analyzed the prominent findings that emerged provided insight on how football has contributed to these athletes’ perspective of what it means to be a man. For these college football players, there are multiple factors that contribute to their conception of manhood, including brotherhood, playing through the pain, and recognizing that they live with a double self. Each of these concepts have been established and learned through the culture of football. From each considerable finding it can be inferred that for some football players, being a man is about commitment, responsibility, and among other things accountability to oneself and to others.
2017_SOAN_09795622.pdf	2017	This study looks at Goffman’s theories of self presentation and stigma and applies them to online dating. The research begins with a general introduction to the study followed by a showing of the previous research of online dating to learn about what other researchers have previously found. Next, a closer look is taken at the above mentioned theories coined by Goffman. Then, it is further shown how the surveys made and used for this study in the methods chapter. Finally the results are explained, where we learn whether those who are on dating websites are as desperate and deceptive as commonly thought by public opinion. In the last chapter of this study the conclusion explains that online daters are sincere in their profiles, however they often aim to show an idealized version of themselves. The conclusion also shows that while the stigma of online dating is shrinking, it is still quite prevalent that some still think online dating is for those who are desperate and deceptive. "
2017_SOAN_09796838.pdf	2017	This independent study examines the historical development of the divisive social issue of political correctness, and current attitudes toward political correctness on The College of Wooster campus. Most students and faculty can loosely define political correctness as a form of social inhibition regarding the use of certain words, phrases, and expressions that have been deemed offensive. It becomes a polemical issue, however, in two distinct ways. One, when the political implications of the repression of certain terms are understood differently, and to some, understood to be unfair, and two, when the value of tolerance toward offensive speech is not agreed upon. Who is to say when something is offensive? And what right do they have to silence another individual for something that many may not find offensive? This study examines The College of Wooster student and faculty attitudes toward political correctness using a quantitative survey with questions based on existing literature, studies, and theory. Political correctness is an inescapable, but constantly evolving, issue, and the goal of this study is to get a sense of where The College of Wooster stands on the matter.
2017_SOAN_09801191.pdf	2017	This research paper examines how skin tanning attitudes and behaviors influence our perceptions of race, class, and gender. I also focus on White people and the possible relationship between racial bias and favorable opinions of tanned skin among this population; there is currently no research on this. This study is pertinent because within the last century tanned skin has become a beauty standard in Western society and People of Color continue to face discrimination on the basis of skin color. Additionally, various populations in Western society are pressured to engage in this behavior and to conform to standards, such as women and individuals of lower socioeconomic status (SES). Data was conducted with college students at a small liberal arts school in the Midwest in two phases. The first phase of data collection involved an online survey on tanning attitudes and behaviors, and the second, an Implicit Association Test (IAT) on racial bias administered only to White students. My results indicated that women tan more frequently than men do; that lower socioeconomic status individuals tan more frequently than higher SES individuals; and that there is likely no correlation between racial bias and tanning attitudes and behaviors.
2017_SOAN_09811978.pdf	2017	When reintegrating back into society, ex-offenders often face difficult barriers due to the stigma of a criminal record. The journey of re-entry can be especially challenging when people return to small towns. The reentry literature tends to focus on large cities; not many scholars have researched the effects of small-town attitudes and lifestyles on reentry. This study draws on ten interviews conducted with formerly-incarcerated citizens. Every participant was arrested in a rural area and returned to a home within approximately fifteen miles of that arrest. The three social theories used in this study to help understand an ex-offender’s experience were Goffman’s Stigma theory, Braithwaite’s theory of gossip and shame, as well as Foucault’s Panopticism theory. This study’s findings indicate that gossip and lack of privacy are two main features of rural areas that make the reintegration process for returning citizens extremely strenuous. Small towns also lack resources, such as housing programs and employment opportunities, so returning citizens find few supports. Due to their criminal record, ex-offenders are highly stigmatized in places where “everybody knows everybody” and they are rarely able to escape their label as a “criminal.”
2017_SOAN_09820558.pdf	2017	This ethnographic study compares the experiences of conflict Japanese Christians encounter when balancing their cultural and religious identities in Japan and the United States. Japanese Christians represent an interesting demographic, since they embody seemingly contrasting identity markers: an East Asian cultural background and a Western religion. This study used participant observation and a bilingual survey to gather personal accounts of the conflicts Japanese Christians face from two church congregations: a Japanese Baptist church in Atlanta, Georgia and a Japanese non-denominational church in Kashiwa, Japan. The purpose of this research was to gain a contemporary understanding of the hardships Japanese Christians encounter when balancing their cultural and religious identities and identify their perception of how Christianity affects traditional Japanese values and customs. This study contributes to the limited body of contemporary anthropological studies exploring the conflicting identity structure of Japanese Christians and their experiences in Japan and the United States.
2017_SOAN_09822507.pdf	2017	Health care access in the United States is a pressing topic in today's day and age. Its intricacies are ever-present, and unique challenges and impediments to access are faced by many populations. This study will examine health care access among Hispanic populations in a rural, Midwestern county and in Portland, Oregon. Through the qualitative analysis of interviews with health care providers and administrators in these two areas, I explore the following: What are the barriers to access, what are they driven by, and what can be done to eliminate them? Following an exploration of the existing literature on the subject, I draw upon Acculturation Theory, Diaspora Theory, and Ronald Andersen's Health Service Utilization model to provide a framework through which to discuss immigrant populations and health care resources and utilization. By hearing the perspectives of individuals engaged in various aspects of care and in different parts of the country, I identify common themes; these include circumstantial barriers to access, health-related barriers to access, and extraneous yet crucial barriers to access. I also aim to identify practices that are used to eliminate certain deterrents to access and utilization of services and offer suggestions of practices that could assist in doing this. 
2017_SOAN_09827554.pdf	2017	This thesis examines the intersection of gentrification and access to healthcare in New York City's West Village, since the closure of St. Vincent's Catholic Medical Center. To contextualize my data I utilized Hans Baer and Merrill Singer's theory of Critical Medical Anthropology, as well as Peter Marcuse's Gentrification, Displacement, and Abandonment theory. I used four formal and informal interviews as well as 12 physical and 4 online surveys to collect my data. I analyzed this data by comparing it to existing results produced by empirical studies. These studies were conducted by institutions such as The Furman Center, NYC, NYC Gov. I argue that gentrification is a detriment to this community's access to adequate healthcare and its agency. Gentrification drives out the original community members through reduced access to basic needs (i.e., healthcare), thus irreparably changing and damaging the existing community. 
2017_SOAN_09827759.pdf	2017	This thesis is about Hispanic/Latino health care accessibility primarily in Wayne County, Ohio. My research question focuses on the impediments that Hispanics/Latinos face when they visit a clinic or hospital. These impediments can vary from basic transportation to cultural misunderstandings between patient and health care practitioner. The research that I have conducted has been through personal interviews. These interviews have been recorded and transcribed and will be analyzed for the content of their answers and attempt to see the similarities and differences between their peers in regards to a similar situation. Given that I am interviewing health care practitioners and Hispanic/Latino members of the community, this paper will benefit the overall community in the future. Part of this project looks at the importance of culture and traditionalism within the Hispanic/Latino community. I analyze the way that in order to create stronger ties to health care organizations, these same organizations have to understand and respect the importance of culture. By becoming more culturally sensitive and aware of the diverse pool of patients that health practitioners see on a daily basis, more relationships and ties will be formed. 
2017_SOAN_09827809.pdf	2017	A drastic change in immigration legislation in the United States in 1965 led thousands of professionals to immigrate into the United States from Asia. Among those immigrants were Indian Hindus who upon arrival began a complex process of diaspora formation. Many of these immigrants did not come on a temporary basis but they came to stay; to pursue education and careers, and to raise their families. In order to continue their religious lives, prayer groups began to congregate in rec halls and temple communities formed in storefronts. As these groups grew too large for these spaces, temples were built. These temples are not merely places of worship but spaces in which cultural identities can be acted out in the diaspora. The research in this study consists of participant observation, interviews, and archival analysis at a dozen Hindu temples in the United States. The resulting work shows the various roles of temples in the preservation and re-creation of Hindu-American identity. 
2017_SOAN_09828908.pdf	2017	"This project explores how the indigenous people of North America and New Zealand utilize geothermal features. In particular, it aims to better understand the relationship of indigenous groups to the distinct geothermal activity that makes up their environments. To do so requires the examination of certain cultural and religious aspects. The Māori people of New Zealand have always had a deep-rooted cultural and spiritual connection to nature. Native American tribes who inhabited and visited the Yellowstone area also have mythology that connects them to the geothermal features of the environment. Both groups utilize thermal springs and other geothermal features as important cultural locations. This research focuses on the Taupo Volcanic Zone on the northern island of New Zealand. This zone is an active geothermal area that has volcanic vents and geothermal fields that contain many types of hot springs and pools. These pools were used frequently by the Māori people for multiple purposes. The other location is Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming, sections of which were used by the Shoshone Bannock. Yellowstone and the Taupo Volcanic Range have very similar geological formations including geysers, variations of hot springs, and fumaroles. Data collection involved conducting interviews and visiting Yellowstone National Park to observe and collect observational data. The theoretical framework utilized is the revitalization theory introduced by A.F.C. Wallace."
2017_SOAN_09828970.pdf	2017	This study analyzed a missionary organization from Southeastern Wisconsin that goes to Haiti once a year to give the children at an orphanage medical checkups.  Many missionary groups go to different countries to help, but they do not always understand the culture that they are walking into, they just know that the country needs help.  I am looking at what does this group do to prepare to interact with Haitian culture and how do they spread the word of their organization.  Using the theories of scapes, neo imperialism, tourist anthropology and structural violence, I will be assessing why the group needs to go to Haiti, how they have made their contacts while reaching others with their mission statement, as well as what could be problematic about their presence.  My scholarly sources explain the history of missionary work, why missionary work is needed in Haiti as well as discussing the Haitian culture.  My findings, backed by interviews with participants in the organization, support the fact that while this missionary organization does a lot of good through their donations as well as visits, they have also had some moments when they have crossed some cultural line and have been asked not to return to the orphanage as a result.  
2017_SOAN_09857745.pdf	2017	This research project explores the culture of Ayurveda in the United States. I used formal and informal interviews as well as participant observation to examine how Ayurveda has developed since its introduction to the U.S. in the 1980s. During my research period I visited an ashram with an Ayurvedic spa in Northern California. I had eight hour-long phone classes with the owner of an herb shop in Maryland. In this paper I use Arthur Kleinman’s theory of cultural systems; Hans Baer, Merrill Singer and John H. Johnsen’s theory of Critical Medical Anthropology; and finally Nancy Scheper-Hughes and Margaret Lock’s theory of the body politic to investigate how Ayurveda fits into the culture of the U.S. I discovered that Ayurveda in the U.S. is a lifestyle rather than just a medical system or spa treatment. Further, Ayurveda is growing and may begin to merge with the biomedical system of the U.S.
2017_SOAN_09859777.pdf	2017	The purpose of this research is to examine cultural competency in healthcare for patients seeking and rejecting diagnosis and treatment for depression, anxiety, panic attacks and ADHD. The concentration of this study focuses on asking what are the primary factors leading families of minority status to seek or reject diagnosis and treatment of mental health disorders in minor children, and how do these factors figure into current approaches by the U.S. health authorities to address health disparities affecting this population. To conduct this research, I used qualitative content analysis of public federal government issued reports available online and public interview on personal experiences of ethnic and racial minorities with mental disorders. Results indicate there is a disconnect between U.S. health authority approaches to addressing healthcare disparities and family making decisions on seeking or rejecting diagnosis and treatment. The disconnect stems from using a general, unidimensional approach, when implicating cultural competency in research and clinical encounters. Analysis suggest multidimensional cultural competency will be effective in developing policy, providing equality care, and having successful interactions with ethnic and racial minority groups seeking mental healthcare.
2017_SOAN_09880366.pdf	2017	This thesis examines the experiences of African-American football coaches at the college and professional level. It uses one on one interviews with coaches to learn about their playing experiences, role models, preparation for becoming a coach and their coaching careers. This thesis interprets prominent sociological theories such as the critical race theory. The research studies the setbacks that minority student-athletes go through before college, during college and after they graduate. This project stresses the importance on the misrepresentation of minority student athletes in comparison to minorities with high power at Public White Institutions of Higher Education and the National Football League. The study is significant because it presents connections to a current social issue being the systematic oppression of minorities in America. Through this research and discussion this study pursues behaviors and procedures that can help diminish the hierarchical discrimination amongst minorities in the workplace specifically in the collegiate and professional football coaching field.
2017_SOAN_09887895.pdf	2017	"Given the increasing reliance on pills to address health issues in American society, I am conducting a study that examines general practitioners' perspectives as to the causes and consequences of what I refer to as ""pill culture"" in the U.S.  Previous literature points to the roles of the pharmaceutical industry, the media, patient demand and physicians’ reactions.  Employing medicalization theory, media dependency theory and game theory, I conducted interviews with 7 general practitioners in the Midwestern U.S. and a web analysis of WebMD.  In my study, I will provide a brief overview of my literature review, theory, and methods.  I will also present select findings and discuss implications for future research. With this study, I hope to provide evidence of a pill culture and how has it been influenced."
2017_SOAN_09897525.pdf	2017	Using in depth interviews and oral surveys with a total of 92 participants, this study examines the perceptions of mental illness as well as how they can be affected by public education and open discussion in Ghanaian metropolitan areas. The study proposes that there are negative perceptions surrounding mental illness and that public education and open discussion can aid in changing the status quo. The study uses symbolic interactionism as well as stigma and labelling theories to analyze the roles that Ghanaians play in influencing stigma and labels through and from social interactions. The results of the study support the hypothesis and indicates how mental illness is defined, viewed, stigmatized and labelled, and how it affects treatment-seeking behavior. Recommendations for future researchers and the Ghanaian society are discussed in the concluding chapter.
2017_SOAN_09915549.pdf	2017	Today's modern world is experiencing a great exchange of people, which has implications for the immigrant identity as well as the national identity of the countries to which they move. Ethnic enclaves are neighborhoods in urban areas that have a high ethnic population and/or a specific cultural identity. Enclaves are predominately composed of immigrant populations and can provide them with networks of social capital, knowledge, economics, and culture and may impact their integration process into a new host society. This research study explores the influence of ethnic enclaves on the immigrant integration process and immigrants' navigation of personal and national identity through case studies in Columbus, Ohio and France. The research focuses on the degree of immigrants' integration based on six factors of the immigrant life experience: level of language proficiency of the host country, employment status, education level, income level, specific attachment to certain racial and/or ethnic groups, and amount of time spent in the host country. This study seeks to understand the diversity of the immigrant integration process and critically analyzes the differences of this process between the United States and France. By utilizing data collected through seven interviews, the present study indicates that not all immigrants need to rely on ethnic enclaves for such support, specifically those immigrants with high levels of educational attainment or skill as entrepreneurs.
2017_SOAN_09921721.pdf	2017	"The prominence of urban agriculture within the United States has increased due to an effort to alleviate food insecurity in American cities. For many scholars, urban agriculture is viewed as a radical method to increase food security while simultaneously fostering community, increasing nutritional education, and promoting entrepreneurship. Yet, others suggest that organizations which grow food in the city are highly influenced by market forces. This creates a tension between social responsibility and capitalist goals. In this study, I analyze this phenomenon in Cleveland, Ohio and Detroit, Michigan. First, I provide a review of literature which discusses works that both problematize and radicalize urban agriculture. Then, I introduce four theoretical perspectives which help form the conversation about urban farms and the market: neoliberalism, social embeddedness, social capital and instrumentalism. Finally, using personal data primarily from semi-structured interviews with individuals who are affiliated with the urban agricultural sector in Cleveland and Detroit, I investigate the question: how does the tension between market priorities and social goals manifest at urban agricultural organizations?  "
2017_SOAN_09923575.pdf	2017	"This study seeks to investigate the relationship between urban-revitalization and public- art in Detroit, Michigan. My research is grounded in a literary and theoretical framework from Ulmer (2016), Freitag (2014), Marx (1844), Lefebvre (1970/ 2003), Adorno (1970), DuBois (1903), and many others. Acknowledging that the studied phenomena are multi-faceted and dynamic, my research employs a primary method of photographic cartography paired with material discursive fault lines and public-media analysis. The fault lines that emerge in my research are based in shared aesthetic content that evolves around aesthetic ownership, restriction, beauty, history, activism, neoliberalism, and democracy."
2017_SOAN_09925196.pdf	2017	"This research addresses the role of “nature” in forest kindergartens and nature preschools. The purpose of this research is to create an ethnography of these schools and to understand how the schools construct nature for their students. I visited two schools to interview teachers and to observe for one day at each school. I also used the ethnographic method of content analysis to analyze blogs from a third preschool. I used literature about forest kindergartens and nature preschools as well as research on social class and education to understand my research. I also used theories on American “wilderness” and “nature” to understand conceptions of “nature” at these American preschools. I found that these schools use “nature” as a classroom, a facilitator for scientific skill, and a way to experience risk. “Nature” has religious connotations as well as gives children access to an enchanted world of mythical creatures. This research provides an in depth look at these schools and how they utilize “nature.” "
2017_SOAN_09925472.pdf	2017	In the past few decades, the prevalence of autism spectrum disorder has appeared to increase significantly in the United States. Parents that have children with autism often spend a significant amount of time accompanying their child to therapy, fighting for what their child needs, and making sure their child is happy and healthy. As the prevalence of autism rose, service dog began to be used as an additional tool. Since then, pediatric autism assistance dogs have become relatively common. They are known to be trained for tasks like tethering, where the dog is physically attached to a child by a cord, and tracking, where the dog can locate a child if the child were to run away. Ultimately, the dog is there to ensure that the child is safe. However, the service dogs have an impact that reaches beyond safety. This Independent Study explores the social impact of pediatric autism assistance dogs on the children that have them and their families. Specifically, I consider how the dogs affect participation in social outings, social acknowledgment of the child, and the amount of social interactions the child and family partake in. In order to do this, I observed a service dog graduation event at 4 Paws for Ability and interviewed six parents of children with autism assistance dogs through the same organization. Ultimately, I found that pediatric autism assistance dogs impact social outings, social acknowledgment, and social interaction. Together, they have the ability to increase social integration for children with autism and their families.
2017_SOAN_09925473.pdf	2017	"This study evaluates the influence that military service may have on an individual’s choice of post-military employment within the field of protective services. The research focuses specifically on the identities of military veterans in the United States who currently pursue work as police officers and firefighters. The study focuses on motivation, transition, and commitment as key factors in identity formation among former service personnel. Examining choice of post-military work is important because it is a major interface between the individual and greater society. Studying the civilian work of military veterans provides insight into how such individuals successfully reintegrate into society. In order to understand the identities of military veterans who currently pursue protective service work, Goffman’s theory of total institutions is employed to examine the socialization process within institutions. It is through Goffman’s theoretical framework that public service work is explored. This study involves police officers and firefighters in the Cleveland, Ohio area and utilizes surveys and oral interviews to gain an understanding of the identities of the general protective service population and of military veterans who have pursued protective service work. This study is unlike previous ones in that is ethnographic approach to understanding post-military work, therefore providing a new understanding of veteran reintegration into the civilian workforce."
2017_SOAN_09925476.pdf	2017	Small producers of Italian wine show persistence by competing in a global economy. In order better to understand this persistence, this research project aims to understand how the commodification of terroir impacts small producer viability in a global economy. While globalization often results in the homogenization of food products, wine is different. A characteristic of wine that allows this resistance against globalization is terroir, or the taste of place. The academic literature reviewed in this study focus on the tension exhibited between terroir and globalization and the ways in which that impacts Italian wine producers. In order to complete the study, original academic research was performed in the forms of interviews, participant observation and content analysis over the course of nearly two years. The subjects for this researched included three wineries, an import company and two legislative documents. The data revealed that the tension between terroir and globalization is resolved in a hybrid model that encourages a diverse market for small, artisanal producers while maintaining respect for terroir.
2017_SOAN_09925480.pdf	2017	"This research explores some of the barriers that prevent sustainable interior design from becoming a part of common interior design practices. Sustainable interior design is a variant that is relatively new in the field of interior design. But, in recent years, sustainability has become more popular and has become a trending area of interest as concerns about the condition of our planet intensify. The barriers in the field can be categorized broadly into three main types: economic, institutional, and mental. After identifying and understanding these barriers to more wide-spread implementation of sustainable interior design practices and products, I discuss ways to expand the use of sustainable interior design practices and products. Drawing from the work of theorists James O’Connor’s on the second contradiction of capitalism, Weber’s moderation of the Marxist perspective, and Riley Dunlap’s New Ecological Paradigm, this paper looks to shed light on why these barriers still apply within the field. Research for this paper is carried out, in part, through content analysis of both a conventional interior design magazine as well as an interior design magazine focused on green design. As well, three interviews were conducted with interior designers in the US and abroad to get a better understanding of work occurring in the field and the barriers encountered to the adoption of sustainable interiors and practices. I found that the influence of these barriers is heavily dependent on an individual’s socio-economic status, their awareness of environmental issues and their appreciation for the interplay of interior design and sustainability. It is my hope that this study will contribute to understanding of the field of sustainable interior design and thereby help to speed its further adoption.      "
2017_SOAN_09925503.pdf	2017	Growing diversity in the United States has led to greater awareness of the medical needs of minority populations. Many areas of the country, however, have found difficulty with bridging language barriers in health care, specifically as it applies to Spanish speaking patients.  This project attempts to understand and experience how an internal medicine clinic known as the Hispanic Clinic in a large midwestern city shapes its services to fit the specific needs of the Hispanic population it serves. Culturally appropriate care comes from community members themselves, as staff and patients alike speak Spanish and in many cases come from the same Puerto Rican heritage. Fictive kin ties are formed between all the players in this clinical encounter, allowing disadvantaged patients to gain social and cultural capital and find belonging in a world where nobody speaks their language. Staff members are understanding of their underserved population and are willing to go above and beyond for them where many other clinics will not. Constructions of health and healing not consistent with the typical biomedical model are recognized and accepted by the staff. Hispanic Clinic staff members are certain that their approach has been successful in establishing strong bonds between staff and patients, and will be expanding to serve more and more Spanish speaking patients. The various factors that contribute to the clinic’s success could potentially be replicated in clinics around the country that serve Hispanic populations, and future research is without a doubt necessary regarding this subject. 
2017_SOAN_09925697.pdf	2017	The enactment of Title IX in 1972 is heralded as one of the most important events for women in sport. Yet it occurred less than a decade after the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Did Title IX equally effect all women? What effects did it have for Black women in sport at that time? This research sought to gain an understanding of the experiences of Black female athletes who competed in sports during the Title IX era. The theoretical perspectives that serve as the foundation for my analysis are sociologist Patricia Hill Collins’ work on Black feminist thought, legal theorist Kimberlé Crenshaw’s work on intersectionality, and anthropologist Irma McClaurin’s work on Black feminist anthropology. My study centers the experiences of Dr. Alpha Alexander, a 1976 graduate of The College of Wooster, who was an athlete in volleyball and basketball. Dr. Alexander’s life history is informed by the experiences of other prominent Black female athletes who played sports such as golf and track and field to highlight diverse understandings of what it meant to be a Black female athlete in the era of Title IX. My analysis is organized around the themes of: childhood influences, the importance of sport for these women, and the most prominent theme, Title IX, gender, and diversity research. In conclusion, I argue that the history of Black women in the era of Title IX builds upon the struggles of the Civil Rights Era, and continues to contribute to the advancement of Black women in sport.
2017_SOAN_09925730.pdf	2017	While there has been work done on homeless populations, and policies regarding homeless shelters, there has been minimal sociological research into the case workers and shelters that work with the homeless to aid them in getting into housing. I studied a day shelter for the homeless in East Tennessee that utilizes a “housing first” method. There I interviewed eleven employees, volunteers, and board members of my chosen shelter, East Tennessee Homeless Services (ETHS). ETHS is regarded as a highly successful program, putting close to 100 people into housing every year. This paper seeks to explain the work done by the case workers at ETHS and why they are successful. I used Bourdieu’s essay “The Forms of Capital” as a theoretical basis for my findings. As a whole, I found that the case workers at ETHS use their own capital in order to further their clients’ position in society and help them get into housing. I also discovered themes of the “American Dream” in connection to home. This paper seeks to shine a light on what causes shelters to be successful, and to point out a hole in existing research on homeless shelters. 
2017_SOAN_09926062.pdf	2017	"Throughout generations stigmatization of the chronically ill individual has occurred in all parts of the globe. Creating false stereotypes and notions of what it means to be “sick,” and who are allowed to be classified as such and who is not. As for athletes, specifically at the collegiate level, the thought of being chronically ill is not a common phenomenon researchers have considered diving into. This study aims to explore the underlying reasons of collegiate athletes suffering from chronic illnesses and why they play their sport(s), investigate their perceptions of self and stigma. I investigate chronically ill collegiate athletes through and initial survey and in-depth interviews. This senior thesis incorporates literature on the chronically ill individual, self and identity, pathographies as a form of healing, stigma, and sport. The use of Erving Goffman’s theory of stigma, George Herbert Mead’s theory of the conception of self, and Margret Somers and Douglas Ezzy’s narrative identity theory create a sociological framework for my research, to better understand the reasons behind some of the responses of self and stigma stated within the interviews. Chronically ill collegiate athletes deal not only with the pressures of living with a life-long disease but they also deal with playing a sport(s), academics, and maintaining a healthy social life. As a result, all participants felt that their illness detracted from their level of play during their sport, a setback. In some cases, describing their relationship with their illness as a separation from their mind and body. Ultimately, leading up to a disrupted sense of self, either positively or negatively, and a new or obscure outlook on life. The chronically ill athlete suffers and endures the pain and stigma that comes with it, but still finds a way to be empathetic towards others and treat them with respect since they realize that they have no idea what horrors or experiences lie within any individual."
2017_SOAN_09927245.pdf	2017	This study seeks to understand the role the public health community plays in portraying, and responding to public health emergencies, in the United States, by examining the public health journals written during times of epidemic crisis. In this study to be specific, the two main areas of focus are the Ebola and Zika virus, which have sparked an international public health response. There have been prior studies done where journalists have focused on social media outlets, and public reaction but none that really focus on the function of the public health system as it relates to providing the necessary support needed in high risk situations. Often times one finds that when it comes social media outlets a lot of the information has been sensationalized, which in return moves away from the promotion of good health care practices and more towards hysteria, fear, and uncertainty. A content analysis was done on public health journal articles. The theories that are featured in this study are moral panic and risk society.
2017_SOAN_09927859.pdf	2017	Social workers are employed in a multitude of places and they work with racially and ethnically diverse populations.  The impact of race on social work was a popular topic during the 1960s (Olsen and Olsen, 1967; Mizio, 1972, and Goodman, 1973) but little work has been done since then. This research analyses how racial issues impact the job of social workers today. Theories used to explore this question included contact theory, colorblind theory and recognition theory.  Eight social workers were interviewed about how race and cultural competency play out in their practice. The analysis indicated that a minority of workers espouse colorblind ideologies that most feel comfortable working with diverse clientele, and that language is the primary barrier they face.  The interviews also revealed that cultural competency trainings vary in effectivity. Social workers noted that that the trainings provided by employers were better than the trainings provided in their educational institution.
2017_SOAN_09927921.pdf	2017	This study focuses on two different types of music, the culture or common set of values behind each one, and the distinct subculture that has been created by the merging of these two genres: cumbia-punk. Through a discussion primarily regarding the origin theories of punk put forth by Nick Crossley (2015), theories on the trajectory of cumbia put forth by Deborah Pacini Hernandez (2010), and the analysis of lyrics written by Anarkia Tropikal, Malportado Kids, and Kumbia Queers, I seek to answer the questions of how and why cumbia and punk merged to create a subculture that celebrates heritage and tackles matters of racism and sexism while still maintaining the originality of punk rebellion. Ultimately, this study looks at the relationship between the avant-garde anti-governmental narratives of punk and the celebratory qualities of Colombia’s mestizo working-class cumbia in an attempt to understand the fusion that subsequently lead to an entirely new wave of punk identity.
2017_SOAN_09928020.pdf	2017	This Independent Study aims to develop an understanding of the experiences of homeschooled students transitioning to college at a small, private liberal arts school in Ohio. Previous scholarship has focused primarily on the experiences of homeschooled students transitioning to large, public schools and this study aims to provide additional information about homeschooled students transitioning to college by representing a less acknowledged population. For the purpose of this study, I conducted seven open-ended interviews with college students who where homeschooled in high school. The discipline of the child, conceptions of the different forms of capital, and the theory of departure provide the necessary theoretical framework to investigate these experiences. The major themes found in this study include the following: usefulness of a resource center, homeschool as personalized education, reasons people homeschool, connections between homeschool and liberal educations, social interactions, transition to college, and agency. Ultimately, I found that the homeschooled students I interviewed experienced smooth transitions to college. 
2017_SOAN_09928060.pdf	2017	Coming to a new country can be a confusing and scary process, especially for a refugee. The typical refugee has been forced out of their native land and had to relocate to a foreign country. In doing so they may have to find a new job, learn a new language, and face many cultural struggles as she adapts to the new society. This study, examines how female refugees from Iraq deal with relocating to Portland Maine and the struggles they go through in doing so. Seven Iraqi women between the ages of about 19 and 65 were interviewed. All the women had lived in Iraq for sometime prior to coming to Maine and were also all Muslim. The women were asked about topics such as employment status, retention of Iraqi culture,  social networks, and whether they had dealt with any types of discrimination in the US. The questions came from looking at previous studies and theories. The theories were standpoint theory, assimilation theory, stigma theory, conflict theory, and group threat theory. After interviewing the women, I also interviewed one employee of the refugee assistance center as they have dealt with many refugee cases. The research had common themes such as reliance on family, adherence to the gender norms of Iraq, and the importance of governmental help. The study therefore furthers our understanding of the different facets of acculturating to the United States as a female refugee.  
2017_SOAN_09929311.pdf	2017	The purpose of this research is to examine how childfree women construct positive social identity. This study focuses on women’s desires in regards to a childfree lifestyle, while taking stereotypes and identity into account. This study incorporates feminist, stigma, deviance, and neutralization theories. I conducted online, anonymous surveys of childfree Facebook group members. After recruiting 79 participants, I conducted a qualitative analysis in which I used Somers’ (1993) coding for common misconceptions about childfree people to explore this identity. I found three additional identity construction codes that were an addition to Somers’ coding dichotomies: proactive, reactive, and ambivalent. Simultaneously, this survey scans for social dynamics within specific online communities. All of the social and internal processes were essential for identity construction.
1989_SOAN_05675786.pdf	1989	"This thesis explores personal meanings of age in the context of the changing age structure of American population, correlating age identification in older persons with life satisfaction, measured by Liang's version of the Life Satisfaction Index A and Cantril's Self-anchoring scale. Informed by Symbolic Interaction and Labeling theories, the thesis suggests that ""old"" may be a stigmatized identity in American society, and therefore detrimental to life satisfaction. Basic assertions of Activity, Disengagement, Socioenvironmental, and Modernization theories are discussed throughout the thesis to provide furthur insight into the issue of life satisfaction. Thirty-one persons between the ages of 66 and 1 02 from three institutions in a small town/rural community were interviewed. Results showed that perceiving good personal health is positively related to Liang's version of the Life Satisfaction Index, and defining oneself as ""old"" negatively affects Cantril's Self-anchoring scale but has no effect on the version of the Life Satisfaction Index. Also, requiring a high level of care increases likelihood of defining oneself as ""old"". A substantial majority of respondents did not identify themselves as ""old"" and most had negative connotations of being ""old"" in general, suggesting that they may be denying their age to escape a negative stigma. Different definitions of life satisfaction and time referents inherent in the two measures of life satisfaction may account for the fact that age identity related to one and not the other."
1989_SOAN_05675787.pdf	1989	"This study attempted to identify characteristics of latchkey children and their parents and to determine if having certain characteristics made a latchkey arrangement in the family more likely. Family profiles were compiled through self-administered questionaires that were completed by 278 anonymous parents on November 9 and 10, 1989, during parent-teacher conferences at Melrose, Lincolnway, and Layton Elementary Schools in Wooster, Ohio. The families of 32 percent of the respondents had latchkey children who spent an average of 3 hours per week in self-care distributed over 2.5 days per week. Responses to questions were tested for correlation with latchkey arrangements in the home. Parental educational level and family income were not significantly correlated with latchkey arrangements. When asked to select characteristics of the ·~ideal child"", the characteristics ""has good sense and sound judgement"", ""gets along well with others"", and ""is responsible"" were selected significantly more often by parents of latchkey children than by parents of non latchkey children. Also, parents of latchkey children believed significantly more strongly than parents of non-latchkey children that ""working mothers can establish as warm and secure a relationship with their children as non-working mothers can"". The results of this study appeared to support aspects of the symbolic interactionism and conflict theories of social behavior."
1989_SOAN_05675788.pdf	1989	Despite the increasing use of art therapy over the past two decades, questions remain about its' effectiveness as a therapeutic tool. Art therapy is discussed as it relates to Symbolic Interactionist theories, Goffman's Impression Management theory, Silver's Cognitive approach, Oster and Gould's Group Treatment approach, and ALfred Adler's theory of art therapy. Empirical studies reviewed indicate that art therapy, in combination with psychoanalysis, is an effective means of enhancing an individual's psychological well-being, particularly those experiencing depress, psychosis, and low self-esteem. Since the effectiveness of art therapy is assumed but largely intested, a study is proposed that will determine the effectiveness of art therapy independent of the effect of psychoanalysis. It is recommended that future research in art therapy employ more rigorous experimental controls, including the use of pre- and post-test designs and the measurement of long-term effects, to assess the eficacy of art therapy.
1989_SOAN_05675789.pdf	1989	This thesis explore the causes of societal attitudes toward alcoholism and alcoholics and the correlation that exists between these attitudes and how society believes that alcholics should be treated in the legal system if they commit crimes while under the influence of alcohol. This is based on the possibility that alcoholism could be a disease and therefore a condition over which the individual presumably has no control. The theories surrounding both the causes of alcoholism and the causes of attitudes toward alcoholics was explored by surveying a group of 157 high school students whose range of drinking patterns allowed for the analysis of the influence of drinking on societal attitudes. In addition, the various background and experiences of the test population allowed for the delination of various variables that can influence both knowledge and attitudes toward both alcoholism and alcoholics. Results of the study show that the extent of drinking of the individual as well as the experience that the individual has had with drinking and alcholism in his family are the greatest predictors of how the individual will view the alcoholic and the alcoholic's treatment in the legal system. Future research is suggested which would more intensively foxus on the preconceived attitudes that the individual has toward alcoholism and the affect that these attitudes could have on how the alcoholic should be treated in the legal system. In so doing, the need for educational programs about alcoholism may be evidenced so that nay future legislation on alcoholism would not be influenced by a lack of knowledge about the alcoholism in our society.
1989_SOAN_05675791.pdf	1989	"This thesis examines the doing of history by a historic reenactment group through a consideration of the nature of history as a myth, whose construction is mutually dependent upon the ideologies of the past and the present, and the groups perception of their experiences in the past and present. The beginning introduces and discusses the three ways anthropology incorporates history: history in social/cultural evolution, history as an institution, and history as a myth. Following this discussion a picture of the group is presented, showing the groups method of performance, how the knowledge is gained and how the group sees these methods and knowledge as legitimate ways of learning and of teaching the public history. This information was gained through participant observations, open ended questionnaires, unstructured interviews, and an examination of the groups literature. The results of this consideration show the groups paradigms of past and present, and the process by which these unite in ideology and experience. The relationship between reenactment and ideology are seen through Geertz' theory of ""model of/model for"" and the effects of this are seen by Warren's discussion of validation of the present by the past, and Leone's discussion of what the tourists see. A discussion of Goffman's frame analysis shows how these perceptions are coexistant through the mediation of different frames of reference by the participants and tourists during the reenactment. The thesis concludes by showing how the other anthropological theories pertaining to history would have dealt with the topic illustrating why the theories of history as myth best suited the experience."
1989_SOAN_05675793.pdf	1989	This thesis examines a unique volunteer organization known as the Welcome Wagon and the role that it plays in setting up relationships within a community. These relationships are formed by the visit of a hostess to the home of a new resident of a community with the presentation of free gifts offered by the area merchants. A discussion of the Welcome Wagon, its history and social structure, as well as a detailed ethnographic description are included. The Welcome Wagon is examined in a few ways. The emphasis of this thesis is on the reciprocal relationships that form with the gifts given, during the initial visit of the Welcome Wagon hostess, causing obligation on the behalf of the new resident to patronize these sponsors. This relationship,instigated by the Welcome Wagon hostess,allows her to be examined as a liminal figure mediating between the public sphere of the merchant and the private sphere of the homeowner. Results of the discussion showed that indeed the Welcome Wagon sets up reciprocal relationships between the merchants and the new residents, as well as other reciprocal relations. But it also showed the importance of the relationship between the Welcome Wagon and the new resident. The Welcome Wagon is responsible for the new resident to go through a rite of passage or transition from the outsider status of a new resident to a socially accepted and civic-minded member of the community. The new resident fulfills her obligation to the Welcome Wagon by her membership in the organization. This ensures the smooth operation of the group and perpetuates the organization's purpose. Future research could be done, focusing on the symbolism of the organization. Another possible focus may be on the theories of ideal woman, with the more extensive use of informant exegesis.
1989_SOAN_05675794.pdf	1989	This study is aimed at exploring attitudes toward the controversial issue of euthanasia through a survey of 130 individuals who were members of attenders of either the Wooster United Methodist Church, Saint Mary's Catholic Church, or the Knesseth Israel Temple in Wooster, Ohio. Although the main purpose of the study is to determine the effects of religion (religious affiliation, religious ideology or belief, attendance at religious services, activity in the church or synagogue, and length of membership) on attitudes toward euthanasia, several other secondary and attitudinal variables are taken into account and discussed. The independent variables are studied in relation to four different types of euthanasia; voluntary active, voluntary passive, involuntary active and involuntary passive. In addition, the independent variables are observed in relation to different conditions for euthanasia. It was found that, of the different types of euthanasia, voluntary passive had the most support of the respondents, followed by voluntary active, involuntary passive, and involuntary active, in that order. Jews were most accepting of euthanasia followed by Methodists and then Catholics. This idea was related to the finding that the Jewish respondents attended church less, and were more liberal in their religious beliefs than the Methodist respondents, who attended less and were more liberal in beliefs than the Catholic respondents. A series of regressions for the different types of euthanasia shows that religious affiliation, attendance, dogmatism, level of education, the respondent's feelings about the physician's responsibility to the patient, and the respondent's attitude about who shmild decide about the action of euthanasia are important predictors of the attitudes toward one or more of the different types of euthanasia. Finally, implications of euthanasia on religion, social policy, and society in general are discussed.
1989_SOAN_05675795.pdf	1989	"The main purpose of the study is examine and to understand the mental health trends of Asian Americans and to disprove the ""myth"" that they are relatively mentally healthier than others. It is assumed that an underlying factor, Asian I Pacific cultural values influences their mental health trends . Data from mental health agencies in Colorado are used to examine the mental health trends of Asian Americans. The sample size of this study consists of 171 Asian Americans out of an overall base size of 48,219 cases. After some preliminary analyses, only seven variables were used to test the hypotheses; Diagnostics Categories, Ethnicity, Sex, Income Levels, Educational Levels and Marital Status. Findings indicate that Asian Americans are vulnerable to mental illness and certain external factors do exert a considerable amount of impact on their perception of mental illness. It would enhance the validity of this type of study if other communities with large Asian American populations were studied in the future, in terms of overall mental health trends."
1989_SOAN_05675796.pdf	1989	This thesis explores the multivocal nature of ideal female as reflected in fragrance advertisements. Multivocality is the concept that a symbol (such as ideal female) is multivocal, having many vocalities or meanings at the same time. The female American consumer's perception of ideal female is multivocal. The vocalities from her perception are reflected in fragrance advertisements as gender images. Her perception was determined using fragrance advertisements collected from ten special purpose consumer magazines within a ten month period. The social variables age and gender were focused upon; utilizing age markets ranging in age from 15 to 55 years and older. Gender images were identified using theories of gender images and a content analysis of the advertisements. These gender images were then gouped into three vocalities: Sacred, Public Presence and Nature. Results showed that the female American consumer as a whole and per age group is presented with the highest percentage of images from the vocality Sacred. The second and third highest percentages of images are from vocalities Public Presence and Nature respectively. Future research is suggested, focusing upon the development. of multivocal male gender as a study. More empha:5is might also be placed upon informants' opinions versus this study's content analysis and theories.
1989_SOAN_05675797.pdf	1989	This thesis explores the relationship between the Women's Movement and the the number of crimes committed by females that are reported. It examines the role which women have traditionally played in society, relating her employment status and percentages in the workforce in particular job categories to the crimes that she has been reported of committing. This was done by analyzing secondary data, specifically labor statistics and uniform crime reports from 1960 until 1985. Results showed that there was a relation between the Women's Movement and the number of reported white collar crimes committed by women. The thesis also involved two subhypotheses, which had no direct relation to my primary hypothesis which was stated earlier. The first was that depending on one's religious views they may view the women's role in society differently. The second was that those individuals who lived in urban or rural areas and had a high level income would be more likely to have liberal views regarding women's role in society than those individuals from a low income category. Results showed that n one of the variables had any significant impact on one's v1ew o f women. Future research is suggested, focusing on the changing criminal system and definitions and categories of crimes.
1989_SOAN_05675798.pdf	1989	This thesis explores the phenomenon of physical violence on college and university campuses, with added emphasis on physical violence that occurs on the College of Wooster's campus. This thesis uses Robert Merton and Walter Reckless' theories as the major basis for the conclusions found in this research paper. This research shows that physical violence is caused by a breakdown in internal controls, external controls, or both that result in the use of nonsanctioned means of goal attainment. This was established through the use of previous studies and a questionnaire that was submitted to a random number of college students.
1989_SOAN_05675799.pdf	1989	This thesis explores the attitudes of College of Wooster students regarding black-white interracial marriage, attempting to correlate those attitudes with the amount of contact with members of the opposite race, with interracial couples themselves, and with perceptions of race relations between blacks and whites. This was done through the distribution of a questionnaire which measured the above variables to fifty white and fifty black College of Wooster students. Results varied, but showed that the relationship between perceptions of race relations and the level of acceptance of interracial couples was the strongest, while the relationship between the amount of contact with interracial couples and the level of acceptance of the couples was the weakest. Further research is suggested, using a larger sample as well as a random sample of a larger population. Further research may explore the relationship between race relations and levels of acceptance of black-white marriages to test if the relationship found can be further substantiated.
1989_SOAN_05675805.pdf	1989	This thesis explores correctional officers' attitudes towards rehabilitation, job satisfaction, self-concept and professionalism levels. Officers at Marysville Women's Reformatory were tested as a representative sample of correctional officers in the form of a questionnaire. The review of literature section covers several topics: the historical progression of English prisons, American prison progression, female correctional facilities and correction officers. Theoretical application touched upon the three broad based sociological theories. The basic assumption of each were outlined with emphasis on specific theorists. Analysis of results were divided into four discussion areas. The first of these was the relationship between self-concept and professionalism. The second dealt with the relationship between self-concept and rehabilitation attitudes. Occupational satisfaction was viewed within this section. Next attitudes towards rehabilitation and professionalism were analyzed. Lastly, the area of occupational satisfaction and professionalism were studied. Results within these four areas show little statistical significance between the variables correlated. Future research is suggested. Suggestions include expanding the sample size and using a different research design. Discussion on the questionnaire involves expansion and clarification of the questions asked.
1989_SOAN_05675806.pdf	1989	This thesis examines the role cartoons play as symbolic myths which reflect and recreate contemprary gender beliefs in the minds and behavior of children. These particular views of gender are absorbed by children also because cartoons function as childrearing vehicles for enculturation. As such, cartoons integrate children with other members of their culture by shaping their attitudes and activites or, personality. Theories which help define American gender and scholar who discuss myth as a tool for enculturation are also reviewed in this paper. The research accompanying this study included viewing three specific cartoons, the Smurfs, Jem, and the Thundercats, and interviewing thirty-five elementary students. Results shows that cartoons embody and invent ideal aspects of American gender in children's realities. THis study also pointed out that children's developing gendered personalities integrate with American culture's personality structure as a whole.
1989_SOAN_05675809.pdf	1989	An understanding of the present social welfare system in America can be obtained through a historical analysis of the early forms of welfare and the changes they have undergone. A knowledge of this evolution is essential because some of the fundamental premises of past welfare systems continue to underlie the most basic forms of welfare policy which have been implemented into the American system. Historically, the policies which have been developed reflect societal attitudes and values. However, such an analysis indicates that attitudes toward public assistance recipients have not changed greatly. Codes that recognize the value of the individual responsibility and effort have influenced the evolution of public assistance policies. Individualistic ideologies have been perpetuated through socialization which takes place in the social order, facilitating the maintenance of the status quo. Therefore, socioeconomic status would have an impact on attitudes toward public assistance. A Marxian projection would agree that socioeconomic status is related to welfare attitudes; proposing that the higher the socioeconomic status, the greater the opposition to welfare. However, this relationship proves to be inaccurate in a modified, capitalist system. There is little difference in attitudes toward welfare relative to socioeconomic status, making the possibility of a welfare policy developed upon class consciousness unfeasible. The opposition to social welfare, regardless of class, could have major repercussions on future social policy decisions in America.
1989_SOAN_05675810.pdf	1989	The purpose of this study is to explore the current concept of physical fitness and how women have adapted to fit this concept. The sociological and anthropological aspects of sport and leisure time, and certain themes of American culture were reviewed in the research for this paper. This thesis correlates American cultural standards of women and the symbols women portray by using Anettte Kolodny's and Will Wright's ideas of American culture. The works of anthropologists Victor Turner, Clifford Geertz and Pam Frese provide insight into how symbols work within cultures. The methodology of the researcher was conducted through participant observation at the Fresh Start Fitness Club. Questionnaires were distributed to women members of the club and club members were interviewed. The data collected makes it possible to understand the motivation and goals of the women who joined the club in order to participate in fitness .
1989_SOAN_05675811.pdf	1989	This thesis deals with the use of perf ormative ethnography as a teaching tool. Drawing on t he theories of Turner, Shechner, and Bruner it argues that performance of ethnographic material can instigate reflexivity and dramatic empathy which provide a deeper understanding of the experience of another person and his/her indigenous culture. A description of the Zinacantan ritual of the Epiphany change of office ceremony for two Alfereces was adapted into scrip t from Vogt's Torillas for the Gods (1976) and performed by a group of college students. Interviews were held afterwards, and participant observation was conducted on the site of the performance. Results show that the performance o f the ceremony increased awareness of emotion and motivation which accompanied native participation in such a ritual, as well as enticing reflexive awareness of American culture and religion in opposition to that of Zinacantan. Further exploration is encouraged in the use of this teaching tool, and use in conjunction with education through traditional methods is suggested.
1989_SOAN_05675812.pdf	1989	This senior thesis will utilize a qualitative methodological approach in anthropology in addressing the subject of ethnoimlsicology. It will include an ethnography which resulted from my field study in Britain. This study was carried out with a leftist alliance of entertainers called Red Wedge. I focused mainly upon the economic and political issues which they were addressing and their means for conveying these concerns to the British youth culture. This ethnography will consider the perspectives of infonnant exegesis and data obtained from participant observation. This thesis will analyze song lyrics in terms of economic and political theories in ethnomusicology. In doing this, we will see how these theories are applicable and how they can be validated through an analysis of song texts. This will result in a greater understanding of both the music and of British society as a whole.
1989_SOAN_05675813.pdf	1989	This study examines what Ohio schools districts are doing to incorporate Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) education into their curriculum. Within the study surveys were sent out to superintendents throughout the Ohio area. These surveys were comprised of questions that evaluated the superintendents' views and actions in response to the AIDS epidemic. The underlying theoretical perspectives used to evaluate AIDS education include: conflict theory, functionalism, labeling theory, and mass social psychology. This study used a quantitative method for acquiring data, such as that gathered through the questionnaire. The purpose of this study is two-fold: to assess the attitudes held by superintendents in regards to AIDS, and, to determine what action Ohio schools are taking to educate the students on AIDS. The superintendents surveyed in this study all seem to agree over the importance of incorporating AIDS education into the schools' curriculum. The differences between the amount of education presently incorporated in the surveyed districts, varied only slightly between the different sized districts. Because of this limited variation, the underlying hypothesis that the larger districts would have more advanced educational programs was proven to be invalid. It is suggested that further studies be undertaken to determine the actual programs and their content.
1989_SOAN_05675816.pdf	1989	The poorest of the poor-- the homeless-- are literally on the streets, without resources and lacking any choices, save those necessary for the barest survival. This project is designed to show the connections. between societal conditions, policy and the phenomena of homelessness: focusing in on the mentally ill homeless. The roots of homelessness are fairly obvious: an economy characterized by rank inequality; a housing policy that is bankrupt on both local and national levels; an incompetent system of care for the mentally ill; and a social service system so rigid as to qualify the poorest of the poor. A failing economy and a shrinking housing market has led many people into homelessness. Historically, there has always been one section of the population who were not constrained by societal structure. The failed policy of deinstitutionalization, enacted to remove patients from state mental hospitals has led to a surge in the number of mentally ill homeless people. Men, women and children are dying on the streets due to realigned priorities of the governments philosophy The theoretical perspective on the homeless is quite narrow, however, structural functionalism, label ing theory, and social disaffiliation were util ized to illustrate homelessness. In order to evaluate the current perception that college students have regarding the homeless population, a. I questionnaire was administered to a sampl ing of first and second year students. it was found that the correlation of these national issues and stereotypes were influenced by certain characteristics.
1989_SOAN_05675819.pdf	1989	"This thesis explores the values of the poor and the nonpoor as well as the working and nonworking poor in order to determine if values are common or class-differentiated. The assumptions of the Culture of Poverty and Value Compartmentalization theories, which propose a class-differentiated value system, are critiqued. Due to inconsistencies within the theories, a Marxist perspective, which proposes a dominant value system, is adopted as the theoretical framework. In order to examine the values of the poor/nonpoor and the working/nonworking poor, secondary analysis of the National Opinion Research Center's 1984 and 1985 General Social Surveys was performed. Guided by Kluckhohn's (1952), Williams' (1970), and Rokeach's (1973) findings on the dominant values in the United States, groups of questions were selected from the survey to operationalize values. Factor analysis found the questions to cluster around five values and value orientations: freedom of speech for reactionaries, freedom of speech for liberals, perception of people's relation to nature/God, perception of human nature, and a set of ""traditional"" values. The value groups were crosstabulated and regressed on the independent variables income and work status, as well as the control variables education, age, rural/urban, religiosity, sex, and race. Results showed both the relationship between income and values and between work status and values to be negligible. Although relationships were modest, education, religiosity, age, and rural/urban had, in that order, the largest association with the values."
1989_SOAN_05675826.pdf	1989	This thesis explores the willingness of College of Wooster students to join countercultural movements and to find if they join because they feel anomie. The questionnaire measured whether the respondent felt high anomie or low anomie through a number of questions. The questionnaire also found whether or not they would be willing to join a countercultural movement. The results of this study showed that feeling anomie had no relationship with joining a counterculture.
1990_SOAN_05675835.pdf	1990	This independent study project examined two sets of predictors of stress; individual differences and environmental characteristics, combined in the occupational setting of nurses' aides who care for elderly residents in long-term institutions (Parkes, 1986). The seven specific independent predictors or variables, shown through seven hypotheses statements, were supported by an integrated conceptual framework model. Formulated by Motowidlo, Manning and Packard (1986), the model emphasized occupational stress in conjunction with the above mentioned two sets of predictors. Although three long-term care facilities were selected as the research institutions, only two local centers, the Wayne County Care Center and Smithville Western Care Center, were, ultimately, used to collaborate a random sample of nurses' aides. By distributing questionnaires to thirty-seven aides, information pertaining to the seven hypotheses was collected. Results showed only two of the hypotheses significant. For future research, it is suggested that researchers increase the sample size to provide more conclusive results. By studying urban and rural institutions, this could be accomplished. More emphasis placed on potential occupational situations would create a broad spectrum in which individual differences and environmental characteristics could be studied.
1990_SOAN_05675838.pdf	1990	This thesis explores the racial self-attitude of Afro-American children. Over the past thirty-five years there have been many studies that have initiated this phenomenon in hopes of bringing a better understanding of what causes a particular self-attitude of the child. This is my focus. I hope to bring another aspect of this phenomenon into play. The way the child perceives himself through the eyes of those significant people in his life, has a great deal to with the development of the child's attitude. My focus is to get a general idea of how the child feels about what the teacher expects from him. Gather a better understanding of what the parent/family is transmitting to the child in respect to racial selfattitude. Understanding how the child feels about being a part of the Afro-American community. This information was obtained from questionnaires given to a randomly selected population of Afro-American 7th graders. The overall results indicated that in 1990, Afro-American do have a positive racial self-attitude and the influence of the significant others does have a great deal to do with the formation of the child's attitude. Further research is suggested, focusing on the effects of the parent/family on the child's development of racial self-attitude.
1990_SOAN_05675839.pdf	1990	This thesis is an examination of public attitudes toward capital punishment which investigates selected predictors--age, race, sex, religion, education, income, residence location, and opinion on the seriousness of the crime problem--contributing to an individual's attitude towards capital punishment. This examination was done utilizing the 1989 NORC edition of the GSS which is a national opinion research survey attaining the opinions of the public on a number of issues including capital punishment. The data from the NORC was examined through frequency distributions and crosstabs which allowed the relationship between each predictor and capital punishment to be reviewed. With the expectation that sex and race were significant predictors of capital punishment, each crosstab was repeated controlling for each of these. The results revealed that education, income, race, sex, and opinion on the seriousness of the crime problem are adequate predictors of opinion towards capital punishment. The significance of education, race, sex, and opinion on the seriousness of the crime problem were attributed to the whites in the sample population. Income was attributed to the males in the sample. The findings in the analysis showed that there was not a significant enough relationship between age, religion, and residence location to justify them as adequate predictors of capital punishment. Since there was an overrepresentation of whites in the sample, future research is suggested focusing upon attaining a representative sample of the U.S. population. In addition, further research is suggested aimed at attaining the basis of support for capital punishment professed by the overwhelming majority of the public. As a result, more research in these areas is needed in order to strengthen or disprove the findings of this analysis of opinion towards capital punishment.
1989_SOAN_05676353.pdf	1989	Despite the increasing use of art therapy over the past two decades, questions remain about its' effectiveness as a therapeutic tool. Art therapy is discussed as it relates to Symbolic Interactionist theories, Goffman's Impression Management theory, Silver's Cognitive approach, Oster and Gould's Group Treatment approach, and ALfred Adler's theory of art therapy. Empirical studies reviewed indicate that art therapy, in combination with psychoanalysis, is an effective means of enhancing an individual's psychological well-being, particularly those experiencing depress, psychosis, and low self-esteem. Since the effectiveness of art therapy is assumed but largely intested, a study is proposed that will determine the effectiveness of art therapy independent of the effect of psychoanalysis. It is recommended that future research in art therapy employ more rigorous experimental controls, including the use of pre- and post-test designs and the measurement of long-term effects, to assess the eficacy of art therapy.
1989_SOAN_05676359.pdf	1989	This study is aimed at exploring attitudes toward the controversial issue of euthanasia through a survey of 130 individuals who were members of attenders of either the Wooster United Methodist Church, Saint Mary's Catholic Church, or the Knesseth Israel Temple in Wooster, Ohio. Although the main purpose of the study is to determine the effects of religion (religious affiliation, religious ideology or belief, attendance at religious services, activity in the church or synagogue, and length of membership) on attitudes toward euthanasia, several other secondary and attitudinal variables are taken into account and discussed. The independent variables are studied in relation to four different types of euthanasia; voluntary active, voluntary passive, involuntary active and involuntary passive. In addition, the independent variables are observed in relation to different conditions for euthanasia. It was found that, of the different types of euthanasia, voluntary passive had the most support of the respondents, followed by voluntary active, involuntary passive, and involuntary active, in that order. Jews were most accepting of euthanasia followed by Methodists and then Catholics. This idea was related to the finding that the Jewish respondents attended church less, and were more liberal in their religious beliefs than the Methodist respondents, who attended less and were more liberal in beliefs than the Catholic respondents. A series of regressions for the different types of euthanasia shows that religious affiliation, attendance, dogmatism, level of education, the respondent's feelings about the physician's responsibility to the patient, and the respondent's attitude about who shmild decide about the action of euthanasia are important predictors of the attitudes toward one or more of the different types of euthanasia. Finally, implications of euthanasia on religion, social policy, and society in general are discussed.
1989_SOAN_05676363.pdf	1989	This thesis explores the phenomenon of physical violence on college and university campuses, with added emphasis on physical violence that occurs on the College of Wooster's campus. This thesis uses Robert Merton and Walter Reckless' theories as the major basis for the conclusions found in this research paper. This research shows that physical violence is caused by a breakdown in internal controls, external controls, or both that result in the use of nonsanctioned means of goal attainment. This was established through the use of previous studies and a questionnaire that was submitted to a random number of college students.
1990_SOAN_05676382.pdf	1990	"This thesis is an exploratory atttempt to examine the relationship between organizations with perceived ""strong"" corporate culture and not-as-strong corporate culture and individual perceptions of those corporations through a value context. By examining and combining organizational culture theory, symbolic interaction theory and current literature and theory on symbols, symbolism and advertising, a central hypothesis was created to examine if the ""strong"" corporate cultures were able to transmit these implicit notions to the wider cultural context through the symbols of that corporation. Two ""strong"" corporate cultures were tested against two not-as-strong-corporate cultures, both compatible in their respective industries. A survey method of analysis was conducted with a semantic differential scale being used to assess dichotomies of values in the corporations through the corporations symbols and/or logos. Results indicated that a stronger relationship did exist between the respondent's ideas of values toward the ""strong"" corporate cultures than toward the notas- strong corporate cultures. Future research is suggested, focusing on extending the sampling and measuring for variables such as sex, race, age and class. Additional emphasis may also be placed on the individual's interpretations rather than with a set group of adjectives in which to respond."
2002_SOAN_06022517.pdf	2002	This thesis explores differences between same faith and interfaith couples. In particular, I looked at marital satisfaction, communication, family reactions, and religion of the children. This was performed by doing research on the topic, then looking at theories that could explain why people choose to marry outside their faith, and what sort of affects it has on them and their families. I looked at rational choice theory, particularly exchange theory and Blau's impression management to explain certain themes. I also looked at symbolic interaction, specifically the looking glass self, and dyads and triads. After reading other studies on the topic and looking at certain theories, I made a questionnaire. Ten interviews were conducted, five with interfaith participants, and five with same faith participants. Results demonstrated that same faith couples have similar religious issues that interfaith couples face. In addition, those who chose to marry outside their religion were friends with many people of a different religion than their own while growing up, unlike those who married within their faith. On the same note, the intra faith participants strongly associate with people of their religious background. Also, the women in interfaith marriages were all raising their children different religions than what they were raised .
2003_SOAN_06044926.pdf	2003	This study reviews literature and gathers original data regarding peak experiences. Following Bourguignon (1973), I define peak experience as a form of altered state of consciousness with distinct characteristics. I hold that it is a common and natural feature of human experience, and that this kind of event plays a key role in shaping human ideology. Peak experiences have both a biological and cultural basis. The event may be formed by temporal lobe transients (Persinger 2000), or micro seizures of the temporal lobe area of the brain, which in turn affects the frontal lobes. The response to and interpretation of this event is culture bound, and subject to the individual's personal history. The data tend to support this conclusion, with similar qualities being used to describe experiences despite occurring in a variety of triggering situations, including music, nature, athletics, intoxication, sex, and religious contemplation.
2017_COMM_10109445.pdf	2017	Pediatric home care nurses spend their days working in another family’s home, taking constant care of a child who is not their own. Like the biological mother of the household, the nurse is a caretaker. Because of this, the nurse and mother in the pediatric home care setting share a similar maternal identity regarding the care of the child. Thus, the question arises as to how pediatric home care nurses strategically communicate with the biological mothers of their patients to negotiate this maternal identity. To carry out this study, I conducted nine ethnographic interviews with full-time, female home care nurses of pediatric patients. Questions covered such areas as the nurses’ relationships with their patients, the ways in which the nurses try to resolve issues within the household, the ways in which the nurses balance the task of decision-making with the mothers, and any tensions that arise in the relationship between mother and nurse.  The interviews were transcribed and analyzed using concepts from scholarly literature on the social constructs of motherhood and health care communication. It was concluded that the pediatric home care nurse recognizes herself as both a mother figure and a medical professional in her work environment, and must balance these two roles while incorporating the patient’s biological motherhood in the patient’s caretaking to assure her of her maternal identity. 
2017_COMM_10112213.pdf	2017	This study sought to investigate two Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) systems used in language therapy for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). This study used quantitative research through a survey to examine Speech-Language Pathologists’ (SLPs) and caregivers’ of children with ASD perceived effectiveness of Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) and sign language as modes of communication for children with ASD. The survey used in this study was developed via the online software Qualtrics. The researcher gathered email addresses through Google searches of autism centers across the United States. Emails were sent to autism centers, along with SLPs who were recruited from a postings to Special Interest Group (SIG) 12 [Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC)] of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA), and two Community Boards of the ASHA (“Research” and “SLPs in Schools”). The results of this study found that PECS is often preferred over sign language based on qualitative responses from participants stating that PECS is more “universally understood” and based on quantitative data. The most important information gained from this study was that teaching communication to children with ASD is crucial, and that the choice of communication mode for children with ASD is highly dependent on the individual patient.
2017_COMM_10113676.pdf	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical effectiveness of a co-worker-implemented Hearing Loss Prevention Program (HLPP) in the road construction industry. A secondary purpose of this study was to determine road construction workers’ perceptions of their own hearing ability and if these perceptions were related to their experiences in the road construction industry. A total of 37 employees from the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation participated in this study, which included a pre-test questionnaire, a co-worker presented HLPP, and a post-test questionnaire. The pre-test and post-test questionnaires included questions on Noise Induced Hearing Loss, Hearing Loss Prevention, how often one uses Hearing Protective Devices (HPDs), knowledge of Hearing Loss Prevention strategies/techniques, and one’s perception of their hearing loss status. The HLPP educated participants about the anatomy and physiology of the ear, severities of hearing loss, loudness levels of various construction equipment and how to measure these intensity levels, HPDs, and the three major messages of Hearing Loss Prevention. Overall, participants demonstrated an increase in knowledge of hearing and how to protect hearing. In addition to this, participants did not perceive that they had a hearing loss. These findings suggest that a co-worker-implemented HLPP is clinically effective in the road construction industry. 
2008_COMM_04668602.pdf	2008	Previous researchers interested in studying the risk of acquisition have approached the topic from either a cost inefficiency or agency cost perspective. This paper develops a theoretical model that combines cost inefficiency with agency costs to explain how management inefficiency negatively impacts firms in a Cournot quantity competition analysis. These theories are then used to explain why some firms survive the market for corporate control and others do not. Utilizing a binomial logit model, the empirical results support the agency cost hypothesis, whereby firms with less executive ownership are more likely to be taken over. However, the results do not support the cost inefficiency hypothesis that firms with greater cost inefficiencies are more likely to be taken over. These results appear robust over a multiple number of model specifications and the approach of considering both factors in the risk of takeover is promoted for future research.
2008_COMM_04668606.pdf	2008	This study investigates the relationship between religion and science within the context, or categories, set up by Ian G. Barbour. Barbour's fourfold typology is used as a model to look at scientific and religious understandings of creation myths and the apocalypse. The religious creations myths that are looked at are Genesis 1, 2, God's creation of the world, and Genesis 7-10, Noah and the flood. Whereas the mainstream scientific theories for creation that are looked at are the Big Bang and Evolution. As for the apocalypse, the book of Revelation, from the Holy Bible, is looked at as a possible end time allegory. For the scientific side of the apocalypse, this study shows the combination of the book of Revelation's ideas and that of scientific possibilities for the end of days. This study concludes with a look at the possibility for the coexistence of science and religion, from which it is learned that the conflict between these two entities is merely that of a loud minority and that, if involved in a discussion, science and religion can, indeed, coexist.
2011_COMM_04668618.pdf	2011	The purpose of this study is to learn how record labels promote their artists and to put that knowledge into practice. More specifically, this study examines past research on promotion and on the target audience of the record label Deydreamin'--Generation Y--to develop a website that promotes Deydreamin' artist, Freddie Cool.
2012_COMM_04668620.pdf	2012	Gloucester, Massachusetts is the oldest fishing port in the United States. This narrative ethnography examines the culture of the fisherfolk that reside in this historic town, and explores the internal conflicts within this culture. Using both academic and literary sources, the author attempts to identify what makes this culture so different from other co-cultures within the U.S. The author then characterizes and analyzes the conflicts that exist within the fishing culture using short narratives and analysis of interviews and observation. Gloucester; fishing culture; narrative ethnography; short narratives; narrative paradigm; conflict within culture.
2012_COMM_04668621.pdf	2012	"This Independent Study observed a baseball team from a small Liberal Arts college in the Mideast region of the United States. Ethnography was performed on this culture during the fall season to understand what types of Nonverbal Communication were used in a baseball setting. Personal Narrative was also used along with ethnography to give a better understanding of the nonverbal communication that was occurring. Seven players within the culture of baseball were interviewed to gain an insider's perspective of the baseball culture that they were apart of. Five types of nonverbal communication were studied including: haptics, proxemics, kinesics, appearance, and facial expressions/eye movement. The common themes of the interview, along with the observations were explained by the author's personal narrative within the culture of baseball that he is a part of."
2012_COMM_04668622.pdf	2012	Many of the decisions we make are based on visual cues. Whether they are about what food to buy, or what part of the word to vacation to, there is more than likely some visual component persuading you to do so. When it comes to selecting a college or university to attend, logos and other forms of rhetoric attempt to convey the values and ideologies of the institution. This study provides an analysis and recreation of The College of Wooster's three primary marketing images: the wordmark, the secondary Kauke Arch logo, and tagline. From administrator interviews and student focus groups, this study examines the current identity of The College of Wooster. The results showed that The College of Wooster's current imagery and rhetoric are not unique to the school, and therefore new recreations were needed.
2012_COMM_04668623.pdf	2012	This study explores the television narrative Toddlers and Tiaras. More specifically, this analysis investigates how the show critiques and promotes child beauty pageants, as well as the traditional ideas of femininity that embody that culture. The study takes a feminist perspective of narrative to explore the central research question. This study finds that the interplay between the features of narrative, in specific, the characters, events, and themes, plays a critical role in promoting and critiquing of child beauty pageant. This study concludes with a discussion of how the pageant standard of beauty is based on money and this contributes to the critique of child beauty pageants.
2012_COMM_04668624.pdf	2012	The creation of Al Qaeda's online magazine Inspire has created a new security risk within the United States when it comes to potential terrorists. This project uses Ernest G. Bormann's fantasy theme analysis to determine the specific rhetorical strategies that Al Qaeda uses to attempt to recruit potential Muslim-American terrorists to join jihad. This study looks at 14 articles from the 6 editions of Inspire. This analysis suggests that Inspire uses three fantasy types to persuade its audience; A call to Islam, the West's suppression of Islam, and a call to jihad. Through these three fantasy types it is possible to understand how Al Qaeda may be attempting to persuade potential American terrorists.
2012_COMM_04668625.pdf	2012	"The role of music in the Occupy Wall Street (OWS) New York (OWS-NY) movement is studied using fantasy theme analysis. This is a qualitative study that employed rhetorical criticism. The research questioning guiding this study is ""How have musicians' song selections worked to encourage protesters to continue, and other citizens to start, rallying for the OWS cause?"" Lyrics from songs performed by six different musical acts at OWS-NY were analyzed. The lyrics provided a rhetorical vision that depicted wealthy men, bankers, CEOs, etc. manipulating the United States government and economy for their own personal gains. The use of folk and hip-hop music broadened the audience base for the movement. Technology lessened the impact of some of the lyrical messages. And the number of issues raised in the lyrics were found to make the goal and purpose of OWS difficult to pinpoint."
2012_COMM_04668626.pdf	2012	"This study combined analytic tools from rhetorical criticism with the predictive power of David Barber's ""The Presidential Character"" in order to modernize this famous work.  Through the analysis of press conference speech from ten different presidents, this study found that there are tangible links between predicted personality and expressions of self."
2012_COMM_04668627.pdf	2012	The growing popularity of tablet devices such as the iPad and the timeless indulgence in the medium of the magazine, with respect to the web-savvy and global mindset of the Millennial generation, combine to open interesting new social dynamics. This study uses Symbolic Convergence Theory as a basis and applied communication research as a method in order to create a digital magazine for the Millennial generation that focuses on travel, culture, and civic engagement. A major conclusion this study found is that digital magazines are enforcers of rhetorical visions for their intended audiences, as they advocate for and interpret the discourses that directly affect the audiences. This study paves the way for creating new avenues of defining audiences, and of uniting Millennials for common goals.
2012_COMM_04668628.pdf	2012	The purpose of this project is to examine how Stephen Colbert embodies and critiques conventional news through his ironic persona. To carry out this study, I employ a rhetorical analysis drawing on both role criticism and performance criticism to examine several segments of the show. Since the 1990s, opinionated news programming has grown in popularity (Norton 315). In its quest for ratings and profit, sensationalism has taken center stage rather than investigative journalism (Selbst 482). Indeed, very few news programs are able to remain impartial with respect to the stories they report and how they tell them. Political humor has done much to criticize this unfortunate shift of priorities in news; however, perhaps no political humor program embodies the sensationalist, partisan rhetoric that has dominated news as well as The Colbert Report (TCR).
2012_COMM_04668629.pdf	2012	Previous research has found a dearth of knowledge of Asperger's syndrome across many different professions (Beischer, 2011; Murphy, 2005; Rahbar, Schwartz & Drager, 2008; Ibrahim, & Assassi, 2011). The purpose of this study was to examine post-secondary professors' and disability support staff members' knowledge of Asperger's syndrome at public and private institutions, both with and without specific programs for college students with Asperger's syndrome. An adapted version of the Knowledge of Asperger's Scale (Murphy, 2005) was distributed to professors and disability support staff members at eight different institutions, and the data collected from the survey was used to measure knowledge of Asperger's syndrome, self-perceived ability to accommodate students with Asperger's syndrome, and general exposure to Asperger's syndrome. The results indicated that overall, professors generally lack knowledge of Asperger's syndrome. However, professors at institutions with programs for college students with Asperger's syndrome showed greater knowledge on the KASP than professors at institutions without programs. Disability support staff members displayed a high level of knowledge, and no significant differences were found between disability support staff members as a function of the institutions' status as either having a program or not having a program. A general lack of knowledge among professors was consistent with previous research (Besicher, 2011), and consistent with research on knowledge of Asperger's syndrome of other professions as well (Rahbar, Schwartz, & Drager, 2008; Ibrahim & Assassi, 2011).
2012_COMM_04668630.pdf	2012	This study gauged college-aged reading tutors' knowledge of reading concepts, specifically, tutors who participate in the Lincoln Way Reads program. The tutors were pre-tested using a test from An Assessment of University Instructors and their Pre-service Teachers' Knowledge of Basic Language Constructs Before and After University Instructor Professional Development, developed by Binks (2008). The tutors then participated in 3 short-term training sessions, in which different reading concepts such as alphabetic principle, phonemic awareness, syllables, etc. were covered. They were then post-tested using the same test as before. Significant changes appeared in knowledge of definitions, application of concepts, syllable types, and ability to count morphemes. Future research should include a professional teacher to train the tutors, a longer period of time between each session, and should utilize a larger participant pool.
2012_COMM_04668631.pdf	2012	The purpose of this study was to examine midwives' knowledge of the techniques and devices involved with feeding infants with cleft lip and/or palate (CL/P). More specifically, this study examined whether midwives in rural communities, urban communities, or suburban communities were more knowledgeable of the techniques used with infants with CL/P. A quantitative method of survey research was used to conduct this study. To access the sample, midwives were contacted by email and invited to participate in the study by completing an online survey. The results of this study showed that midwives lacked knowledge of the techniques and devices used to feed infants with CL/P.
2012_COMM_04668632.pdf	2012	This paper examines the functional delayed echolalia that four children with autism produced in home and non-home environments. The researcher classified delayed echolalia using categories described by Prizant and Rydell (1984). Differences in productivity across settings was observed in all participants.
2012_COMM_04668633.pdf	2012	"This research examines two ""nontraditional"" voice-training techniques, Estill Voice and Fitzmaurice Voicework, and their respective uses in voice therapy conducted by American-Speech-Language-Hearing-certified pathologists. The purposes for this study were-- to discover why speech-language pathologists pursue additional certifications in the nontraditional methodologies of Fitzmaurice Voicework and Estill Voice; to determine how these two techniques compare to each other; and, finally, to find out how these techniques are implemented during voice therapy though ethnographic interviews. The researcher interviewed six ASHA-certified speech-language pathologists from around the country. This research highlights alternative methodologies that aid traditional voice therapy techniques in the effort to improve voice therapy."
2012_COMM_04668634.pdf	2012	The purpose of this study was to examine the perceptions that college students have of individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing of varying speech intelligibility.  More specifically, this study investigated the perceptions college students had of individuals with hearing loss in terms of speech intelligibility, speech skills, social acceptance, academic achievement, and behavioral conduct. College students at a small, liberal arts college in the Midwest were asked to listen to three short sound clips, and to complete surveys after each clip.  One sound clip was of a male with highly intelligible speech, one was a male with moderately intelligible speech, and a third clip was a male with essentially unintelligible speech.  The results of this study found statistically significant differences in perceptions of individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing in terms of speech intelligibility, speech skills, social acceptance, academic achievement, and behavioral conduct.  Overall, this study found that college students perceived speech intelligibility to be a significant indicator of success socially, academically and behaviorally for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing. The results of this study lend support to the need for continued advances in the field of audiology.  Knowing the negative perceptions associated with hearing loss in the past, provides strong backing for the need for continued early identification and intervention for speech, language and hearing skills.
2012_COMM_04668635.pdf	2012	"The study examined the knowledge, skills, and abilities of regular education elementary school teachers (kindergarten through 6th grade) in educating mainstream students who are deaf or hard of hearing. The study investigated if educators were aware of hearing loss and the educational implications that hearing loss can have on a student's ability to learn in a mainstream classroom. The study also examined the teachers' knowledge of the function of hearing aids and cochlear implants and if the teachers had the ability to troubleshoot these types of devices. The study additionally explored the knowledge of appropriate accommodations and modifications necessary for the education of a student who is deaf or hard of hearing in the classroom. Finally, the study inquired as to the amount of previous experience and training that teachers had regarding hearing loss and if the teachers felt that access to resources regarding hearing loss or impairment was adequate and readily available. The results showed teachers reported variable skills and knowledge when it came to hearing loss and technologies. Overall, the respondents had very little knowledge about technology related to hearing loss, especially cochlear implants. These results also showed that while teachers believed that students with hearing loss could benefit from being in a mainstream classroom environment, the teachers did not believe that students with hearing loss were comparable to their ""typical"" hearing peers. Based on these results, it could be inferred that the average general elementary school teacher is ill-prepared for having a student with a hearing loss in his/her classroom. These results are consistent with previous findings concerning general education elementary school teacher's knowledge, skills, and abilities in educating students who are deaf or hard of hearing."
2012_COMM_04668636.pdf	2012	Published literature argues that wellness remains an elusive goal for the survivors of traumatic brain injury. This study investigated the perceived and self-reported role that speech-language pathologists play in the restoration of wellness for survivors of traumatic brain injury. These responses were then compared to those of physical and occupational therapists. The participants of this study were physical therapists, occupational therapists, and speech-language pathologists who were identified as employees of rehabilitation facilities throughout the United States. The participants were contacted by email, and were directed to an electronic survey administered by Google Documents. The results of this study found statistically significant differences among the survey group with regard to: clinical responsibilities, therapeutic goals, and the prioritization of the dimensions of wellness. This study concluded that: (1) all three disciplines agree wellness should be a rehabilitation goal for survivors of traumatic brain injury, (2) narrowly stated rehabilitative goals contribute significantly to unmet patient wellness needs, (3) limited collaboration among the three rehabilitation disciplines, left the broad wellness goals unaddressed, and (4) continuing education leads to increased awareness of patient wellness needs. Ongoing education and work redesign are necessary to close the gap between patient wellness needs and the currently delivered rehabilitative services.
2012_COMM_04668637.pdf	2012	The purpose of the study was to determine what type of services clinicians were providing to adult cochlear implant (CI) recipients post-implantation, as well as, on clinicians' opinions regarding the amount of services being provided to adults, and the main components of an adult CI program and what were perceived to be the most effective components of adult CI programs. The specific research question being asked was: what resources are being provided to adult cochlear implant recipients post-implantation, and how much knowledge do providers believe they have in the development and implementation of effective audiologic rehabilitation procedures for these adults. A survey was distributed to 108 potential participants located through Cochlear Americas' website list of CI centers in the United States. Of those 108 contacts 21 self-selected professionals participated in the research. Quantitative and qualitative analysis of the surveys was completed. Results revealed that there is a belief in a lack of adequate services for adult CI recipients, and a lack of knowledge about how to conduct adult AR with CI recipients. Additionally, results indicated that there are certain components of adult CI AR that are believed to be most important and most often included in CI AR programs with adults.
2012_COMM_04668638.pdf	2012	This paper examines the relationship between local police and television news journalists in small town America in order to identify effective strategies for building and maintaining trust and increasing positive communication between the two organizations. The study was designed as a quantitative study, performed using an Internet based survey that focused on police and media relations specifically designed to measure the perceptions of journalists and police, the strategies used to communicate between the two organizations, the effectiveness of community policing, and the role of the public information officer. Police officers and television news journalists from around the country were selected based on availability through the use of the Nielsen market rankings. The research findings suggest that that police personnel consider the relationship between the two organizations to be stronger than journalists consider it to be, both police and journalists hold strong impressions of one another, and both organizations need to be more open to information sharing at all levels in order to build a stronger police-media relationship.
2012_COMM_04668639.pdf	2012	The purpose of this study is to determine which campaign strategies are most effective in increasing pro-environmental behaviors.  Before these campaigns strategies can be determined, information about the target population, college students, must be gathered.  Therefore, two focus groups will be conducted.  The focus groups will gain information about students' current knowledge of environmental issues and their current level of green activism.  For a more in depth outline of the questions being asked please refer to the attached question list.   The information collected during the focus groups will be used to create several campaign messages that will then shown to students during survey research.
2012_COMM_04668640.pdf	2012	The Tripartite Influence Model (Thompson et al, 1999) proposed that there are three primary influences which impact body image: parents, peers, and media. Based upon this model Thompson et al. (2004) created the Sociocultural Attitudes Towards Appearance Scale which measures internalization and body comparison based upon these influence variables. The current study extends this research by focusing in on the media influence and looking directly at its impact on internalization. The method at hand involves pre and post-test internalization measures. The post-test is taken after the viewing of either an athletic or sexualized image. This athletic image type incorporates the recent revisions of the SATAQ-3 to include questions about athletic body type. The aim of the study was to examine differences in athletic and general internalization levels based upon image type (athletic or sexualized). Results indicated no significant impact of image type upon internalization. Furthermore, female athletes and non-athletes did not differ in levels of pre or post-test internalization.
2012_COMM_04668641.pdf	2012	This Independent Study asked the question: does consumer self-concept and personality relate to consumer product personality preference? This study addressed this question by exploring the concept of product-personality congruence, or the suggestion that the consumer compares himself or herself to the personality that he or she ascribes to a product (Govers and Schoormans, 2004, p. 191). Two surveys were used in this study: the NEO-PI-R Domains of the International Personality Item Pool to determine the respondent's personality and Aaker's 42-Point Brand Personality Scale to determine product personality.  This study examined how respondents ranked eight different chairs in terms of product personality and sought to determine if the product personality of the respondent's favorite chair was congruent with his or her human personality. Overall, it was found that human personality is not a contributing factor to determining the product personality of a product. However, certain chairs were found to represent particular product personalities and naturalness and unity were found to be the most appealing design principles of the chairs used in this study. In addition, it was found that human personalities follow predictable trends in regards to the domains a person embodies most and the domains a person embodies least.
2012_COMM_04668642.pdf	2012	This study investigates the communicative roll of female fashion in the workplace. More specifically, this study examined the perceptions both men and women form based on the clothing a female might wear in her place of business. This study used survey research and quantitative analysis and allowed participants to view one of eight different images of female business attire. Outfits included a tailored skirted suit with blazer, a fitted, above the knee-length skirt with a sleeved, cowl-neck shirt, a short-sleeved, collared, knee-length dress with a high wasted belt, a tailored, knee-length skirt with a long sleeved collared shirt, loose fitted trousers with a loose fitted blazer, fitted trousers with collared shirt, a fitted pantsuit with a blazer, and fitted trousers with fitted a sweater top. A total of 127 individuals from a variety of different businesses in Ohio participated in this study. Results revealed that many outfits did not differ from one another in terms of how the female would be perceived. However, findings did indicate that the fitted pantsuit with the blazer was the most powerful, confident, modern, and respected outfit of all of the outfits used in this study. Results also showed that the tailored, knee-length skirt with a long sleeved collared shirt was perceived as the most educated, most conservative, most controlling, most hardworking, and most organized. Additionally, the fitted, above the knee-length skirt with a sleeved, cowl-neck shirt was perceived as the least respected, least conservative, least appropriate, and the least professional.
2012_COMM_04668643.pdf	2012	This independent study conducted research regarding college aged students opinions of three different print advertising strategies in the fashion industry. The researcher created three print advertisements for a company founded personally by the researcher. The three advertising strategies utilized were sexually appealing, celebrity endorsement, and likeable character advertisements. The participants were approached by the researcher to fill out part of a survey and then view one of the three advertisements and the fill out the rest of the survey. The participants provided their initial opinions of print advertising and then their opinions of the particular advertisement they viewed. The study used the means-end theory to analyze the opinions of the participants. The results of the study demonstrated that participants' values shape their opinions of advertising, and also that brand awareness is very important to receive a positive reaction to an advertisement.
2012_COMM_04668644.pdf	2012	"Reality television is a popular medium. It allows its audiences to observe ""real"" people live various aspects of their lives, whether it is the birth of a child, a cooking competition, or a wedding. With its growing genres, reality television influences viewers in a variety of ways. One genre of reality television, wedding shows, is the focus of this study. This research study analyzed how reality TV wedding program viewing habits influence young women's desires for their own weddings and what they believe other women desire for their weddings. To analyze this topic, 17 junior and 23 senior female participants sorted 26 statements and images of wedding reception components such as cakes, flowers, reception halls, foods, music and bar options, and other miscellaneous items into categories that best fit theirs and other women's wedding desires. The participants were provided with three categories in which to sort the photographs and statements for the first time: ""I would definitely want this at my wedding,"" ""I might want this at my wedding,"" ""I would never want this at my wedding."" The participants were provided with three additional categories in which to sort the photographs and statements for a second time: ""Other women would definitely want this at their wedding,"" ""Other women would maybe want at their wedding,"" ""Other women would never want this at their wedding."" After each participant sorted each statement into one of the three categories, the researcher will record each statement and the category in which it was placed. The participants also completed a short, 10-question survey after they completed the sorting process. The results, once collected from 40 College of Wooster females, were statistically analyzed. This study found that reality TV wedding program viewing does not influence what young women desire for their own weddings or what young women believe other women would desire for their weddings."
2012_COMM_04668645.pdf	2012	Despite the vast research on elementary education, little is known about how current third grade teachers are preparing their students for the Ohio Achievement Assessment (OAA) and how No Child Left Behind (NCLB) has affected current third grade teachers' classroom instruction. In the present study, I conducted nine ethnographic interviews of current third grade teachers. The following were among the results: (1) Preparing students for the OAA is a process of creative collaboration. (2) Preparing students for the OAA involves using outside resources. (3) NCLB is pushing teachers to teach to the test. (4) NCLB and standardized testing are improving more than harming classroom instruction. There are three implications from this study that include: (1) Merit pay could have a negative impact on elementary education. (2) Equal learning environments and teacher training are vital parts of elementary education. (3) NCLB could benefit from small modifications.
2012_COMM_04668646.pdf	2012	This study tests to see if digital brainstorming, through the use of iPod software applications (apps), enhances third grade students' ability to story write. Third graders at both schools were split randomly into two groups and given a writing prompt. One group used the traditional pre-writing method, using concept mapping and story boarding, while the other two groups used the iPod application PuppetPals to pre-write for their stories. Pre-test and post-test data was used to evaluate change in students' writing, based upon whether or not they were using iPods and their apps. The results of this study found no significant enhancement of the stories.
2012_COMM_04668647.pdf	2012	This study was written to examine the Salem Witchcraft Trial Transcripts and determine whether or not the language used in the transcripts contributed to the oppression of women and promoted witchcraft as a women's crime or problem. The analysis was written using feminist rhetorical criticism and was based on the language present in the documents of two victims of the trials, Ann Pudeator and George Burroughs, both of whom were interesting characters in the social landscape of Salem, Massachusetts in 1692. The study includes an introductory chapter that contains the purpose of the study as well as a brief background of the Salem Witchcraft Trials, as well as a chapter that explores past research on the trials in the fields of communication, women's studies, history, and law. The methodology chapter introduces feminist criticism, and the analysis is presented in the fourth chapter. The major conclusions and implications of the study are present in the last chapter.
2012_COMM_04668648.pdf	2012	Social media are new terrain in the marking and promotional world and it can be difficult for new companies to maneuver these landscapes. This study intends to evaluate ways in which social media, and Facebook in particular, can be use as cheap and effective marketing tools for new companies. The purpose of this study is to determine how much electronic word of mouth on Facebook can be used to increase the number of visitors to a new company's Web site. More specifically, the study seeks to determine how changing the general purpose (i.e., to inform, to persuade, to entertain, or to reward) of the Facebook message would affect the number of visits to the company's Web site. My method of research was a quantitative experimental study. I used this method, but instead of testing people, I chose to use weeklong time frames in which I tested different marketing messages on Facebook pertaining to a new company I created called Wombia. Experimenting with changing the general purpose of the Facebook message over specific periods of time allowed me to determine how different messages affected the number of visits to Wombia's external Web site. The implications of my study suggest that new companies should make intentional efforts to create messages of some kind on Facebook. Such efforts can lead to dramatic increases in new viewers and traffic to the company's external Web site. The second implication of this study is that any messages a new company uses, whether to inform, to persuade, to entertain, or to reward, should be highly dynamic or changing. Thirdly, companies marketing themselves for the first time should use a new message with the intent to reward as their initial message in a series of messages presented to an audience. Finally, new companies can use social media to market their company simply at an extremely low cost.
2013_COMM_04668649.pdf	2013	Although much research exists on the field of crisis communication as a whole, there is little information in regards to crisis communication in the realm of sports.  The purpose of this specific study was to examine how an ethical violation that occurred in a Division-I collegiate institution, and its consequent image restoration tactic, affected the public perception of that institution in which it occurred.  Organizational Culture, Situational Crisis Communication Theory, and Image Restoration Theory were used in this study to create an understanding for its results.  This study utilized the qualitative methodology of focus groups.  College of Wooster students served as the participants of three focus groups.  Each group was presented with an ethical violation and then was asked to discuss their opinions on the presented scandal.  That was followed by a presentation of an image restoration technique and another discussion of their thoughts.  These results showed that an ethical sports scandal negatively affects public perception of the program and university in which it occurs.  Participants attached several negative emotions, attitudes, and opinions when asked a variety of questions.  The participants also felt that the image restoration strategy used in this study was primarily ineffective in restoring the overall image of the program and university.  These results, along with the general process of this study, will be discussed within the framework of this paper.
2013_COMM_04668650.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study is to examine how law enforcement identifies and responds to symbols of gang activity, including non-verbal communication. The method guiding this study is ethnographic interviews, which help the researcher get below the surface of an issue and explain responses in more depth than survey research. I interviewed nine law enforcement officials from a large city in the northeastern United States about their daily job routines and tasks, as well as how they identify gang activity. In my analysis, I explain the impact of gangs on the community, how officers identify gangs and gang activity, the resources they use to so, the policing strategies with which they use to respond to gang activity, and the most challenging aspect of working with gangs.
2013_COMM_04668651.pdf	2013	This research relates to audiences. The primary goal is to determine how film can be used to instruct independent music artists in the areas of branding and promotion. To fulfill this goal, I will create a short documentary film called The Grey Area. The film is a compilation of interviews with independent music artists, music industry executives, music producers, songwriters, and entertainment lawyers who share the same passion I have for educating independent music artists on the best practices in promotion and branding. Success in these areas is a part of a larger framework of retaining relevance in the music industry. I will use my film to encourage independent artists to take action in promoting and branding their product: music. This research relates to two audiences. The primary audience consists of the individuals interested in using film as an instructive medium and is most represented in the physical research on film and branding. The secondary audience is the audience of the film, The Grey Area. The film's primary focus is on independent music artists who seek to brand and promote themselves, and will thereby utilize the film to discover the best practices for such an endeavor.
2013_COMM_04668652.pdf	2013	The study examined how John F. Kennedy made use of the epideictic or ceremonial nature of his June 10, 1963, commencement address at American University to advocate for a new policy, the Limited Test Ban Treaty. In order to analyze how President Kennedy made use of epideictic themes in this address, the generic method of rhetorical criticism was employed. In all, this study concluded that as a commencement speaker, Kennedy made use of the epideictic nature of his address by employing what I call epideictic progression in four distinct ways; specifically, the President attempted to: (1) unite the audience behind the value of genuine peace; (2) shift the focus of praise and blame; (3) establish the U.S. as an exemplar of peace; and (4) lay the foundation for future action on civil rights.
2013_COMM_04668653.pdf	2013	Since the start of the millennium, fashion blogs have provided a major influence on the social media world by transforming themselves into key players within the fashion industry. Through these blogs, bloggers document their styles by using pictures of themselves or others who are fashionably inclined. Anyone, regardless of age, social status, or style can create a fashion blog, which is becoming a popular trend in the blogosphere. Studies found that in July 2010 over 2 million fashion blogs were circulating on the internet (Rocamora 409). The increased interest in fashion blogs has created a new space for individuals to express themselves, but also market products to the public. Through mediated interactions, fashion blogs are quickly changing the way the millennial generation processes self-expression and identity. I analyzed through focus group research how the millennial generation uses fashion blogs for the construction of self-identity and the purpose of making purchases.
2013_COMM_04668654.pdf	2013	The Green Revolution in the second half of the twentieth century ushered unprecedented agricultural expansion in the developing world. One of the primary beneficiaries of the movement was India, whose people witnessed tremendous gains in wheat and rice output. Although many remember the Green Revolution fondly, some scholars have raised criticisms of the Green Revolution in the decades following the movement. One of the prominent critics is Vandana Shiva, who argued that India's Green Revolution disempowered women and nature. The purpose of this study is to examine Vandana Shiva's book, Staying Alive: Women, Development, and Ecology, through an interdisciplinary perspective. My analysis is three-fold: I employ ecofeminist rhetorical criticism to evaluate Shiva's argument that the Green Revolution oppressed and alienated women; furthermore, I use a game-theoretic model to illustrate Shiva's depiction of women's disempowerment in the context of intra-household decision-making; lastly, I test the economic theory through empirical analysis, estimating the theory with data from India.
2013_COMM_04668655.pdf	2013	Fantasy sports are a rapidly growing industry. Various sports like baseball, football, and even bass fishing have available online leagues. With the growth of Fantasy sports in our society has come the emergence of Fantasy sports leagues in the workplace. With concepts of work and play combined in such an activity, the question arises as to how Fantasy sports will affect employees' commitment to their organization. To carry out this study, I conducted a series of nine ethnographic interviews of both men and women from a company that runs an office Fantasy football league. Questions covered areas such as organizational commitment, employee morale and Fantasy sports. The interviews were transcribed and analyzed using concepts from scholarly literature on organizational commitment and Fantasy sports. It was concluded that Fantasy leagues effect organizational commitment through the enhancements of working relationships and perceptions of the company.
2013_COMM_04668656.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study was to compare the frequency of print-focused strategies that preschool teachers implemented when reading to their class during story time. In particular, comparing the frequency across classrooms types and between book types. Eight preschools were studied, four of them for children at-risk and four for children not-at risk. The results indicate that there is no significant difference in the number of print-focused strategies based on classroom type. But teachers produced significantly more print-focused prompts when reading alphabet books compared to picture books.
2013_COMM_04668657.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study was to compare the quality of life between younger children (ages 5-8) and older children (ages 9-13) with childhood apraxia of speech (CAS). In order to measure their quality of life, children with CAS were asked both open and closed questions that were adapted from McLeod (2004). There were few differences between the two age groups on their quality of life. These findings indicate that the children with CAS in this sample have an adequate support system.
2013_COMM_04668658.pdf	2013	My Independent Study focused on the process of how professionals identify learning disabilities in children with hearing loss. Currently, tests have not been standardized for the population of children with hearing loss with potential learning disabilities.  My I.S. explore various learning disabilities. hearing loss and the the process of diagnosing learning disabilities in children with hearing loss.
2013_COMM_04668659.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study is to investigate specific concerns of parents who have children using high-tech augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) devices. Specifically, I will investigate parental concerns related to the AAC device, including training, resources of time and money, and integration of the device into the community and school setting. The researcher will also study parental concerns concerning the two professionals working most with their children: teachers and speech-language pathologists.
2013_COMM_04668660.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency and types of non-literal language usage in adults. In particular, the researcher determined whether non-literal language usage changes as a result of age and or education level. Age was chosen as a variable because it has been found that cognitive decline, as a result of old age, diminishes the abilities of older adults to interpret certain types of non-literal language. Education was chosen as a variable because no research has examined the effect of education level on non-literal language production. The researcher interviewed adults of varying ages and levels of educational attainment. Each participant told three stories based on images taken from the Thematic Apperception Test, then those stories were coded for non-literal language and subsequently analyzed. Priming and explicit instruction both had a significant effect on non-literal language usage. However, a significant interaction was present between amount of figurative language usage and age. Neither age nor education level had a significant effect on ambiguous language usage.
2013_COMM_04668661.pdf	2013	This research sought to determine which components of music training programs designed for cochlear implant (CI) recipients were perceived by auditory rehabilitation (AR) specialists as most effective in improving music enjoyment. The researcher analyzed music training programs from major cochlear implant companies, and compiled a list of specific components that make up each program. The researcher created a survey with Likert-type questions rating the perceived effectiveness of each component, without identifying which program(s) the components are from. Results of the study found that the AR specialists perceived the following components of music training programs as most important: familiar melodies as stimuli, instrument discrimination tasks, real songs as stimuli, lyric identification tasks, timbre descriptions, hierarchical levels, and the inclusion of a charting feature. The HOPE Notes program contained the greatest number of components perceived as most effective.
2013_COMM_04668662.pdf	2013	There are methods that can be used to help children become more educated and understanding regarding disabilities in a mainstreamed classroom. A specific technique that was used in this study includes a developmental bibliotherapy-like intervention for a first-grade classroom in which the students were taught about hearing loss. The purpose of this study was to determine the knowledge and attitudes first-grade elementary school-aged children have regarding children who are deaf or hard of hearing. The methodology for this primarily qualitative study made use of interview-based research techniques. Two first-grade classrooms participated in an experimental design, which consisted of both classrooms taking a pre-test, one classroom receiving a scripted intervention about hearing loss, and then both classrooms taking a post-test. To get more in depth information about children's knowledge and attitudes interviews were conducted with a few of the students from both classrooms. An analysis of the classroom data from the pre-test/post-test was recorded as well as common themes that emerged from the interviews.
2013_COMM_04668663.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study was to investigate if senior college students were able to identify the atypical play behaviors demonstrated by preschool students with autism. The children used for this study consisted of five male preschool-aged children. Three of the five were diagnosed with autism and range represented of the mild to high severity. The next participants that were used for this study consisted of 15 female senior college students at the College of Wooster, Wooster, Ohio. Of the 15 students, five were Communication Sciences and Disorders majors, five were education minors, and the remaining five were students who had not taken classes CSD 141, 145, and EDUC 200 at the College of Wooster. Overall, this study found major conclusions for each of the majors and their ability to accurately or inaccurately rate the play behaviors of typically and atypically developing children. The results of this study lend to support the importance of the integration of play in classrooms for children with autism. Knowing the atypical play behaviors of children with autism at an early age, will help for students to be more effective in facilitating social and communication skills in their field placements and/or clinical settings.
2013_COMM_04668664.pdf	2013	Currently Alzheimer's disease is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States, a statistic anticipated to increase as the elderly population continues to rise. Therefore, finding either preventative measures or better yet a cure should be a research priority. Currently, studies are suggesting a potential relationship between hearing loss and dementia/Alzheimer's disease (Lin, Metter, O'Brien, Resnick, Zonderman, & Ferrucci, 2011). For this reason, this study looked at the clinical measures licensed audiologists were routinely using, which may be reflective on their knowledge regarding this topic. Hence, the purpose of this study was to examine the degree and type of knowledge licensed audiologists in the states of Ohio and Florida have regarding the potential relationship between hearing loss and Alzheimer's disease. In order to investigate this relationship, an electronic survey was distributed to licensed audiologists in these two states via email. A total of 210 responses were received and subjected to analysis. The completed Independent Study reflects results, discussion, and future research recommendations.
2013_COMM_04668665.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study was to investigate the diagnostic procedures that audiologists use in order to determine candidacy for cochlear implants in children who are deaf and have one or more additional or multiple disabilities. A secondary purpose of this investigation was to determine how these audiologists measure the audiologic and speech perception outcomes of children with multiple disabilities after cochlear implantation. This study was conducted using survey methodology, studying audiologists working in cochlear implant centers across the United States.
2013_COMM_04668666.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study is to examine how heterosexual males form same-sex friendships and why heterosexual males are attracted to other heterosexual males as friends. More specifically, this study examines heterosexual male same-sex friendships within the context of collegiate American football. There are several rationales for this study. Brief examples of those include the lack of this type of interpersonal communication research in heterosexual male same-sex friendships, as well as a need for varied methodological approaches to friendship research. This study will use face-to-face interviews to collect data from its participants. The interviews will be held in a designated classroom for one to two hours. The interviews will be recorded for transcription purposes with the permission of the participants. There are thirty-five, open-ended questions. The questions ask participants to reflect on their friendship and provide insight into how football has impacted said friendship, as well as how the formation of the friendship occurred and ways the friendship is maintained. Please see the attached document for a complete list of interview questions.
2013_COMM_04668667.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study was to examine factors that could influence the work-life balance of NCAA Division III Athletic Directors. The factors explored were home and work support (including mentorship, resources, and programs), gender, responsibilities, leadership, and experience. Past work-life balance research included many occupations, but very little focus on athletic directing. This study, therefore, extended the scholarship and added to information on work-life balance published by the NCAA. The findings revealed that support (from work and home) and gender contribute to athletic directors' work-life balance. Likewise, leadership and experience related to work-life balance. One major implication to this study is that athletic directors should surround themselves with supportive persons.
2013_COMM_04668668.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study is to investigate how people in heterosexual romantic relationships perceive the impact of messages received from their romantic partners through various forms of technology. This study has scholarly value because it hones in on relational attributes such as intimacy, satisfaction, and affection that have yet to be greatly researched in the context of romantic relationships and technology. This study is also important because it looks exclusively at the perceived impact that various forms of technology have on personal relationships or partners in romantic relationships, as opposed to focusing on the frequency of and reasons for the use of technology. This study includes an analysis of responses from individuals involved in romantic relationships and their perceptions of the impact of technology within their relationships.
2013_COMM_04668669.pdf	2013	The purpose of this study was to compare the attachment relationships middle school students have with their parents to the attachment relationships they have with their peers. In addition to comparing these attachment relationships, this study investigated the relationship between attachment style and academics. There are three rationales to this study. First, this study adds to existing scholarship on attachment between parent-student and peer-student relationships through the use of the attachment theory. Second, this study enhances the understanding of insecure attachment relationships versus secure attachment relationships and their relationship to students' academic achievement. Third, parents benefit from this study through becoming more knowledgeable about their own attachment relationships, the behavior they choose to use with their children, and the effects it has on them. In this study, middle school students were surveyed using two identical surveys; except one contained a six question section on mother attachment while the other contained a six question section on father attachment. The findings of this study showed that there is a significant relationship between the sex of a student and the likelihood of a student having a secure specific parent and secure general peer attachment relationship. Additionally, there is a significant relationship between the grade in which a student is enrolled and the student's attachment style and the likelihood of having a secure general parent and secure specific parent attachment relationship. Finally, the marital status of a middle school student's parents does not have a significant impact on the student's attachment style or the likelihood of having a secure general parent, secure specific parent, secure general peer, or secure specific peer attachment relationship.
2013_COMM_04668670.pdf	2013	This study was conducted to understand the uses and gratifications of fashion-based blogs. A survey was created to better understand why individuals use fashion-based blogs. I have chosen the uses and gratifications theory to help explain the reasons why individuals use fashion blogs. In the survey participants who are 18 years of age and older will explain the different reasons they use fashion-based blogs, if they have created their own fashion blog, some demographic questions, and the time usage spent using fashion-based blogs. The survey link was e-mailed to College of Wooster students, and friends/ family. My survey link was also posted on Facebook, as well as on my very own fashion blog that I have created. This survey will not include non- fashion blog users or readers. Conclusions showed significant results as to why individuals use fashion-based blogs, how they use fashion-based blogs, and the content individuals prefer to see in fashion-based blogs.
2013_COMM_04668671.pdf	2013	As an examination of the portrayal of characters with disabilities in Disney animated feature-length films, this study examines Disney films through an ideological analysis, specifically with a postcolonial view.  Disability studies, in general, focus on the separation of individuals with disabilities from society and the stigmatization, via stereotypes, these individuals face (Garland Thomson, 2003; Smith, 2007). By studying disability in Disney, this paper gives particular attention to the way the non-disabled characters treat the individuals with disabilities. It emphasizes the presences of stigmatization and stereotyping in four Disney films.  Analysis focuses on four central Disney characters: Nemo, Quasimodo, Captain Hook, and Dumbo, all of whom display significant physical disabilities.  Significant conclusions include unrealistic representations of disabilities regarding physical appearance, obstacles, and treatment by society. Also, there is a lack of characters without redeeming qualities, unless they are a supercrip, in these four Disney animated films.
2012_COMM_04802299.pdf	2012	Although corporate rebranding is finding its rise in academic literature, there are still minimal works that have cited Burke’s theory of identification as an important theoretical foundation for implementing a successful rebranding campaign. This study conducts a qualitative study via rhetorical analysis of eighteen commercial advertisements from McDonald’s “I’m lovin’ it” rebranding campaign in order to highlight specific identicational strategies and appeals embedded in the commercial advertisements that have proven to be responsible for McDonald’s rebounded corporate success.
2012_COMM_04820269.pdf	2012	My I. S. is a rhetorical analysis using a generic criticism and symbolic interaction theory to find the visual and verbal advertising strategies of the top 5 supplement companies based on annual revenue. I chose to use advertisements in print magazines.
2014_COMM_05205157.pdf	2014	"Social media has infiltrated our lives and have changed the ways we communicate with one another. We like to share our lives online and connect through different social media platforms. Just like us, companies and brands are implementing social media into their marketing strategies in order to become more relatable, market their products more effectively, and be where their consumers are. This study provides an analysis on social media marketing in the business and marketing sphere, and how and why they are implementing certain platforms for their companies. From expert interviews and textual analysis, this study examines how and why social media is being used from a business standpoint. The results showed that social media has enhanced traditional marketing efforts, humanized companies, and made them more transparent and relatable to consumers, which could lead to better consumer relationships and possible increased business.
2014_COMM_05205654.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to examine how the media (journalists) use fear as a rhetorical tactic to influence the American public on the topic of gun control. I performed a rhetorical analysis on the news coverage from the New York and Los Angeles Times during the two week period directly following three major shootings. The three shootings were the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Aurora Colorado, and Newtown Connecticut shootings. I randomly chose three articles based on each shooting from the two newspapers. The findings revealed that there were four main themes used by the media to promote two types of fear in their audience. The first type of fear was the fear of firearm violence, the second was the fear of having firearms banned or restricted. The four main themes present were gun control, assault weapons and high capacity ammunition magazines, violence in media and society, and comparison to past tragedies. This study helps people to better understand the media’s effect on their audience using rhetorical tactics.
2014_COMM_05259172.pdf	2014	Since Israel’s establishment in 1948, Palestinians who experienced exile have shared their narratives to other Palestinians and the international community to justify their right to return. This study explores narratives of second- to third-generation Muslim Palestinian refugees. I conducted a narrative criticism of ethnographic interviews I recorded with Palestinians from a refugee camp in the West Bank. Palestinian refugees present their narratives to Western misconceptions that the media perpetuates. The collective memory of exile and oppression in addition to the experience of living under Israeli occupation influence Palestinians’ understanding of the past and shape their present worldview. Despite the unlikelihood of return, these stories actively reinforce Palestinian strength. Thus, the right to return is not necessarily about returning to and recreating Palestine as it was before the Nakba; it is a story about the need for human rights.
2014_COMM_05260347.pdf	2014	This investigation sought to determine the knowledge and use of Universal Newborn Hearing Screenings (UNHS) by certified nurse-midwives throughout the United States. A survey which included mostly Likert-type and open ended questions that focused on basic hearing knowledge related to newborns, personal use of UNHS equipment, and general opinions about the importance of newborn hearing screenings. Responses were analyzed based on predominate location of practice (i.e. homes compared to hospitals or birthing centers) and the results found that a limited number of certified nurse-midwives personally completed newborn hearing screenings regardless of work environment. Although many of the participants did not personally complete the screenings, the majority believed them to be important.
2014_COMM_05281716.pdf	2014	"The purpose of this study was to examine the stereotypes of race and gender that were represented in Verizon Wireless television commercials. I examined five commercials chosen via YouTube and analyzed the ways in which Verizon presented specific race and gender in each commercial. This study contributed to the previous limited research that focuses on stereotypes of race and gender in cell phone television commercials. My findings revealed that Verizon uses stereotypical gender role and racial images to represent their phones as well as other cell phone companies in the United States. One major implication of this study is that one who sees a Verizon commercial will be able to view it in an ideological and critical ways and to recognize the ways in which the media create messages.
2014_COMM_05289336.pdf	2014	This research sought to investigate how pediatric audiologists diagnose and recommend management plans for pediatric patients with Auditory Neuropathy Spectrum Disorder (ANSD). There was a focus of this study on the many considerations audiologists face when recommending cochlear implant candidacy for pediatric patients with ANSD. The researcher interviewed six pediatric audiologists to first gain better clinical knowledge of ANSD, then used interviewee responses to generate a nationwide survey about the protocols being followed by audiologists when diagnosing and managing pediatric patients with ANSD. The survey was posted electronically to a number of American Speech-Language and Hearing Association Special Interest Groups and ANSD social media webpages. Results from the study found that the heterogeneity among pediatric patients with ANSD does not allow for a “one-size-fits-all” protocol list to be followed when trying to diagnose or manage all pediatric patients with this disorder. Instead, pediatric patients with ANSD should be treated on a case-by-case basis to determine what management plan would best suit the individual’s needs and capabilities.
2014_COMM_05318111.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to investigate parents’ perceptions of what influence participation in adaptive sports had on children with autism spectrum disorder (ages 6-12). Specifically, parents were asked to reflect on the effectiveness of their child’s participation in adaptive sports on the development of communication skills, social interaction skills, and motor skills. The researcher created an electronic survey that included a variety of questions that were intended to measure parents’ perceptions. A total of 13 parents completed the survey instrument. The results from this study revealed that parents were relatively neutral about the effectiveness of adaptive sports on their child’s communicative, motor, and social development. However, parents consistently reported adaptive sports to be most beneficial for their children’s motor development. Given the generally neutral responses to the survey items, the researcher offered possible explanations for the results.
2014_COMM_05319650.pdf	2014	This study examined how Black women’s buttocks are represented in R&B/Hip-Hop music videos. A cultural studies method was employed to analyze how Black women’s buttocks are presented and to discover what these images mean. In order to complete this cultural study, archival research and textual analysis were employed to interpret the images in the selected music videos. Through archival research it was discovered that the producers of these images are overwhelmingly male and non-Black. Ultimately, this study concluded that Black women’s buttocks in R&B/Hip-Hop music videos are presented in order to: (1) view the Black women’s buttocks in the form of a backwards gaze; (2) capture and film these women while they are dancing, more specifically shaking their buttocks; (3) expose the buttocks in the context of stripping, through the use of money and poles; and (4) presenting the buttocks with the purpose of insinuating sexual activity. 
2014_COMM_05323403.pdf	2014	For the better part of two decades now, mass media in the United States and the United Kingdom have reported on supposed links between certain vaccines and autism spectrum disorders. No credible evidence or empirical data exists to support these or related assertions. Regardless, media stories in both countries have given the topics substantial attention and have fostered fear and confusion in the minds of the public, as evidenced by the existence of costly anti-vaccination movements. The purpose of this study was to examine and compare the use of media scare tactics within British and American television news broadcasts involving vaccine-related issues from 2007-2013. I aimed to discover what role television news media might play in the continuation of unfounded fears in each country. Specifically, I considered episodes from NBC Nightly News, CBS Evening News, BBC News, and Channel 4 News. Drawing from the theories of agenda setting and media framing, I conducted an ideological criticism of fourteen episodes to expose potential fear appeals and scare tactics. My findings revealed three main themes among and between the episodes from each country, involving the nature of outside sources, the features of scripted verbal content, and the variety of visual effects. Altogether, I found that television news programs in the United States rely more heavily on scare tactics than do those in the United Kingdom, thus contributing to the perpetuation of a more pervasive culture of fear.
2014_COMM_05324188.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to examine whether or not speech-language pathologists are aware of the growing neurodiversity movement among individuals on the autism spectrum. More specifically, this study investigated the opinions of speech-language pathologists about the principles of neurodiversity and how knowledge of the movement may impact the ways speech-language pathologists provide services to clients with autism spectrum disorders and their families. Speech-language pathologists across the United States responded to a survey about their awareness and opinions of the neurodiversity movement. The findings of this study indicate that speech-language pathologists are both unaware of the neurodiversity movement and do not implement neurodiversity values into personal intervention practices.
2014_COMM_05335177.pdf	2014	Educators typically place much importance on the academic success of their students. However, without learning the appropriate tactics to use on a day to day basis to help students get the most out of their education, a teacher’s desire for student success cannot be realized. One of the tactics a teacher may use is immediacy. This study was designed to examine teachers’ nonverbal immediacy behaviors and their association with levels of student motivation as well as their perceived academic competence. In order to examine if nonverbal immediacy in a teacher’s feedback affects students’ competence and motivation to excel in the classroom, survey research was conducted. The survey given consisted of a variety of different types of questions asking about participants’ perceptions of their professors. These questions asked if the participants’ professors used specific nonverbal cues associated with immediacy. Questions were also asked about the amount of satisfaction with the teacher, amount of motivation, and judgment of one’s own competence. Data analysis on a sample of 102 college students (51 males and 51 females) was conducted. The findings indicated that nonverbal immediacy behaviors performed by teachers are related to the teacher’s ability to instill motivation and competence into their students.
2014_COMM_05337932.pdf	2014	This research sought to investigate the age at which children develop metalinguistic awareness of grammaticality, which gives them the skills to recognize, identify, and correct a variety of grammatical errors found in children's literature. In order to examine the acquisition of this skill, students in kindergarten, first, second, and third grades were asked to listen to sentences from Junie B. Jones Is a Party Animal (Park, 1997). After each sentence, the children were asked whether or not the sentence was grammatical or ungrammatical. They were also asked to identify and correct errors, all of which require varying degrees of metalinguistic awareness of grammaticality. Results of the study demonstrated that as children developmentally progress, they acquire and strengthen metalinguistic awareness abilities. Additionally, none of the kindergarteners, first graders, second graders, or third graders were able to fully correct comparative and superlative, irregular verb, or adverb errors.
2014_COMM_05339294.pdf	2014	This study use interviews with black women on a predominately white campus to collect and analyze data, and create narratives about black women’s experiences, communication and interactions in a society where the concept of whiteness is dominant. This study uses data from these interviews to investigate the major concept of black women’s experience such as differing ideals of black women’s beauty, black women and feelings of loneliness and isolation, stereotypes of black women, awkwardness with race issues on a predominantly white campus, and personal expression. This study specifically gives details about how dance can be used as a way of expression and education about black women’s experiences on a predominately white campus. It discusses specific race issues that black women experience on The College of Wooster’s campus, and then works to create a positive and creative ways to discuss race through the use of narratives and dance.
2014_COMM_05344827.pdf	2014	In this study the main purpose was to determine which graphic design components of logos aid in creating visual persuasion and recognition among audience members. The first component was directed at the graphic design elements of elaborateness, naturalness, and harmony. The second was to look at the influence of color utilizing the categories of hot, cold, and neutral. This study aimed to analyze the relationship between graphic design elements and color to determine their influence on brand perceptions and company recall. Nine logos were created; three logos with high levels of naturalness, three with high harmony, and three with high levels of elaborateness. One of each of the color combinations were used for each sub category resulting in three logos in each color combination. The nine logos were presented to different groups of college students in addition to a hypothetical company name. The findings of the study revealed that harmonious logos were perceived highest among audiences. Additionally, the interaction of color and graphic design element had a significant effect on reactions to the logos.
2014_COMM_05345647.pdf	2014	In regards to intervention methods, Hodson (2007) indicated that children with highly unintelligible speech have been underrepresented in the literature. The purpose of this study was to determine what intervention approaches speech-language pathologists use to remediate highly unintelligible speech in children and the factors that influence clinical decisions. Specifically, this study examined the traditional approach, minimal pairs, multiple oppositions and the cycles approach. Surveys were distributed to speech-language pathologists in order to obtain their perspectives on these approaches. The researcher used an adapted version of the survey from Joffe and Pring’s (2008) study concerning assessment and remediation methods in the UK. The results indicated that most speech-language pathologists frequently use the traditional approach and minimal pairs to remediate highly unintelligible speech. They also reported that they use broad-based approaches and are likely to change approaches when their client’s disorder becomes less severe. Clinicians indicated that stimulability and severity are the most important factors that influence clinical decisions.
2014_COMM_05346799.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study is to gain a better understanding of the ways audience reaction shots are used to tell the narrative of the talk show. Viewers at home see and hear the audible and physical reactions of the audience through clapping, laughing, and head nodding. Through a series of interviews, my research examined how reaction shots can influence the at-home viewer’s understanding of the program. Participants were asked to think generally about the shows that they watch and how they feel about them. My study is to determine to what extent at-home viewers feel a connection to the studio audience and how the studio audience has the ability to impact the beliefs of the at-home viewer. The three overall themes were elements of persuasion based on reaction shots, understanding a physical resemblance to the studio audience, and feeling an emotional connection to the studio audience.
2014_COMM_05351470.pdf	2014	This thesis examines the marketing strategies that female rappers use in order to enhance their personal brands as entertainers. An intention of this study is to identify whether the female rappers adopt any marketing practices while working in the hip-hop industry. Another objective is to explore how women in hip-hop elevate their brands for public consumption. Past research on hip-hop and marketing only discussed marketing hip-hop’s messages with the intent to sell automobiles. Additionally, female rappers were mainly mentioned for their lyrics and appearance. To arrive to the major conclusions of this study, interviews were conducted with female rappers: Tiffany Foxx, Big Rik Locc, and 3D Na’Tee. The marketing tactics that were analyzed were the female rappers’ image, online presence, reputation management, and hip-hop movements. This analysis is significant because its findings suggest that practices in hip-hop culture hinder the rappers from employing certain marketing strategies to further their careers. Additionally, this study reveals how the exploitation of Black women has been incorporated into self-promotional tactics.
2014_COMM_05362255.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to examine the oral narrative skills of children with cochlear implants. Specifically, the researcher compared the oral narrative skills of children with cochlear implants to their typically hearing, age- and gender-matched peers. Language samples were collected from five children with cochlear implants using the Test of Narrative Language (TNL; Gillam & Pearson, 2004) to elicit three narratives from each of the children. The three narrative tasks included: a retell task, a story generation task based on a sequence of pictures, and a story creation task based on a single image. The researcher transcribed, analyzed, and scored the narratives to evaluate microstructural and macrostructural elements of the resulting narratives. There was no significance found across the three narrative tasks. Although this study revealed that overall, the children performed similar to their hearing peers, additional research is needed to establish normative data on the TNL (Gillam & Pearson, 2004) for children with cochlear implants.
2014_COMM_05362907.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to investigate how a hearing impairment affects competitive collegiate athletes within the NCAA Division III; and what previous and current accommodations influence the success of athletes’ play and their communication with both their hearing coaches and hearing teammates. The factors investigated via survey research were accommodations used in both previous and current education and athletic settings, along with perceptions of athletes regarding their competition experience and their encounters with their peers and coaches.
2014_COMM_05363127.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to investigate the knowledge that audiologists in The United States of America have regarding the treatment of patients with tinnitus, including military veterans and active duty military personnel. A secondary purpose was to investigate the knowledge that audiologists have regarding the treatment of military personnel who suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder in addition to tinnitus. In order to conduct this study, survey methodology was utilized and distributed to a population sample of audiologists within the U.S.
2014_COMM_05364208.pdf	2014	This study explored the effectiveness of three different persuasive message strategies designed for the purposes of this study – emotional appeal, fear appeal, and informational appeal – as used in a health campaign. This health campaign’s focus was on the general public’s knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors concerning celiac disease and the gluten-free diet. Using experimental and survey methodologies, the researcher quantitatively analyzed data collected from 103 participants from a small liberal arts college in Ohio. General knowledge of celiac disease and the gluten-free diet was affected by the emotional appeal, whereas more specific knowledge was affected by the fear appeal. Furthermore, some interactions were found between message type and participants’ previous knowledge about celiac disease and the gluten-free diet. These findings were supported utilizing theories such as Protection Motivation Theory, the Theory of Reasoned Action, the Health Belief Model, the Extended Parallel Process Model, and the Elaboration Likelihood Model.
2014_COMM_05372116.pdf	2014	The social networking site Facebook has shown impressive growth and increasing influence on the ways in which we communicate over the last decade. Specifically, Millennials are highly dependent and devoted to Facebook. My study examines how Millennial students’ use of Facebook impacts their self-presentations and perceptions of others. Additionally, this study reveals the implications of deactivating one’s account for a brief period of time. To conduct a qualitative analysis, I employ the methods of ethnography and autoethnography, with narratives of four liberal arts students as well as myself. My research reveals common themes among my participants, such as the preoccupation with self-presentation, the importance of self-concept, and negative feelings resulting from Facebook use. Overall, I found that our perspectives towards Facebook are highly dependent on our own individual experiences and identities, and most importantly, directly related to how we value the site.
2014_COMM_05372128.pdf	2014	The purpose of this research was to utilize The College of Wooster’s student-run radio station, WOO 91, as a case study of how college radio stations can create or maintain a positive organizational image through community relations strategies. Past studies on college radio have been limited to the history and purpose of the genre, and the existing scholarship does not discuss how college radio stations can better serve off-campus listeners. As a result, I conducted ethnographic interviews with station employees in order to determine the strategies that could be applied to WOO 91’s pursuit of community appeal. Notable strategies include WOO 91’s programming, social media efforts, and partnerships with the local community. This study revealed four major findings: (1) WOO 91’s student employees are not familiar with the Wooster community; (2) the station’s best strategy is its offering of diverse programming for potential listeners; (3) community events are the best way for WOO 91 to build relationships with the community; (4) the station’s student employees stated that WOO 91 could assist The College of Wooster in their community relations efforts. One implication from this research is that WOO 91 should hire a community relations director in order to create and maintain connections between the station and local residents and business owners.
2014_COMM_05372216.pdf	2014	Strengthening The Bonds Between Brothers is an autoethnographic study. I sought to foster effective organizational communication within The Men of Harambee in order to achieve success as defined by participants. Furthermore, I wanted to turn my talents into strengths. To do so my study used Clifton’s StrengthsFinders personal assessment and interrelated methods of strengths workshops, ethnographic interviews, and participant observations. I made use of Kenneth Burke’s theory of identification in order to help participants identify with their “strengths” as well as those of their fraternity brothers during workshops and ethnographic interviews. As a member of the organization I observed interactions between my Bruhs and included myself within the study. I found interactions between members vital to analyzing the organization under the assumptions of the Organizational Culture Theory. I discovered four major themes of confidence/self-efficacy, Identification with strengths, leadership, and Organization Brotherhood Equipoise (OBE). At the completion of my study I concluded that I fostered effective organization communication but it was not maintained, I developed my talents into strengths, my participants did not successfully adopt the fifth phase of strengths development of “initial development”, and that my study was a beneficial method of analysis for a historically Black fraternal organization at a predominately White institution.
2014_COMM_05372470.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to investigate college student musicians' attitudes and understanding of noise-induced hearing loss as well as determine their noise exposure and prevalence of hearing loss. The researcher conducted a survey with 41 student participants that were involved in musical ensembles at a small liberal arts college in northeast Ohio. In addition, the researcher measured peak and average noise levels in Symphonic Band and Symphony Orchestra rehearsals using a dosimeter. Results of the study revealed that noise levels in typical ensemble rehearsals reached up to 111 dB A, which exceeded occupational safety levels as determined by occupational safety and health administration (OSHA). Furthermore, the majority of students reported at least one symptom of hearing loss, yet on average they did not feel that they were at risk and they were very unlikely to use hearing protection. Students performed poorly on measures of hearing loss awareness and reported that their primary sources of hearing loss education were the media and their parents, not from music instruction. Despite this, subjects showed some concern about acquiring hearing loss and the effect it could have on interpersonal relationships, which shows potential for change. From the data collected by this study noise-induced hearing loss appears to be a very real threat for collegiate student musicians, even though it is completely preventable with proper education and hearing protection measures.
2014_COMM_05372519.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to identify the ideology presented within two mindful eating blogs. To carry out this study, I conducted an ideological criticism to deconstruct the main beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors that each blog promoted. Results of the study demonstrated that the blogs presented an ideology of empowerment and liberation of the female body and self. The blogs reinforced this ideology by encouraging women to (1) to trust their bodies in choosing flexibility, balance, and moderation when making food choices; (2) to practice awareness and acceptance of emotional and physical eating triggers; and finally (3) to embrace imperfections, vulnerability, and mistakes throughout the eating process. In contrast, the blogs framed dieting as an oppressive and controlling system wherein the body is frequently rendered powerless as external dieting rules often take priority over internal knowledge and bodily needs. One major implication of this study is that it provides another perspective on health that can be used to challenge the dominant weight-loss and weight management approaches toward health.
2014_COMM_05372555.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to examine the factors that could influence the college selection process of student athletes at NCAA Division III The College of Wooster. Participants were surveyed regarding the influence of academic, athletic, and communication factors that affected their college selection process. Past college selection process research examined fewer athletic teams at other levels of competition. This study, therefore, narrows the scope of this type of study since it examines the college selection process of six athletic teams at one institution. The six athletic teams that were chosen to participate at Men’s Basketball, Men’s Soccer, Baseball, Women’s Basketball, Women’s Soccer, and Volleyball teams. The findings revealed that the “Campus visit” was the most influential factor in the college selection process, males were more influenced by athletic factors than females, and the Men’s Basketball and Baseball teams were more influenced by the athletic reputation of their athletic program than the other athletic teams. One major implication of this study is that not all Wooster coaches recruit but those that do recruit have the more successful athletic programs.
2014_COMM_05372574.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to determine the role the students played in the 1988 Deaf President Now (DPN) protest at Gallaudet University and to determine the impact the protest had on student activism, d/Deaf education, and the Deaf community. The researcher analyzed primary sources from the students who participated in the protest and distributed electronic surveys to undergraduate and graduate students enrolled at Gallaudet University in the spring of 2014. Results of this study found that the students played a major role in the 1988 protest. The students overtook Gallaudet University by making demands, blocking the campus gates, and holding rallies. In addition, the findings revealed that the graduate students tended to have more knowledge of DPN than the undergraduate students and that the students may not consider d/Deafness a necessity now for the President of Gallaudet University.
2014_COMM_05372611.pdf	2014	This purpose of this study was to examine parental perceptions of health-related quality of life in their children with cochlear implants. The researcher developed a survey to explore factors of the child’s quality of life in the areas of social, physical, and emotional quality of life. Questions included probes specific to the child’s cochlear implant(s). The survey was distributed through the AG Bell Association’s weekly emails for recruiting participants. Also, parents of children who were enrolled in the Auditory- Verbal therapy program at the Cleveland Clinic were encouraged to participate in this study via a letter from the researcher and her advisor. Parents of children ages 5-13 years old who are/were enrolled in Listening and Spoken Language (Auditory-Verbal) therapy and who had at least one cochlear implant, were the target subjects for this study. Results of this study found that parents of children with cochlear implant(s) generally reported their children had a positive quality of life. Also, parents were pleased with Listening and Spoken Language (Auditory-Verbal) therapy as their child’s communication outcome. One major implication of this study was that audiologists and other related professionals should continue to inform families regarding the health-related quality of life for children with hearing impairment in order to help demonstrate that children are capable of having a most positive quality of life, living with hearing loss.
2014_COMM_05372620.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to examine if the presence of a therapy dog influences the reading skills of first-grade students. Specifically, the researcher assessed the participants’ reading rate, accuracy, fluency, and comprehension across two conditions (reading with a dog present and reading without a dog). The Elementary Reading Attitude Survey (ERAS; McKenna & Kear, 1990) was used to measure the children’s perception of recreational and academic reading. The participants read two equivalent grade-level passages from the standardized Gray Oral Reading Test 5th-edition (GORT-5; Bryant & Wiederholt, 2012) with and without a dog present. The researcher assessed the children’s rate, fluency, accuracy, and reading comprehension skills across the two conditions as they read the passages. At the end of the study the students were asked whether they preferred reading in the presence or absence of the dog. There was no significance found across the conditions of this study. Although this study revealed that overall, the children preferred reading in the presence of the dog, additional longitudinal research is needed to gather data on the long term influence(s) of Animal-Assisted Therapy on children’s reading skills.
2014_COMM_05372670.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study is to examine the argumentative properties of John P. Clark’s testimony before the House Judiciary Committee on November 16, 2011, in steadfast support of the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA), and the open letter to the United States Congress signed by a group of eighty three Internet inventors, innovators, and key figures sent on December 15, 2011, in which they argued against the SOPA and other bills. This study uses qualitative analysis in the form of Toulminian analysis, a type of rhetorical criticism. This study aims to raise awareness about immensely important issues that will affect most Americans and the majority of the world, as much of the world’s inhabitants are Internet users. This study ultimately finds the argumentation of Clark to be superior to that of the open letter. This study also brings to light many serious worldly issues such as Internet piracy, counterfeit medication, and Internet regulation.
2014_COMM_05372756.pdf	2014	The purpose of the study was to examine the effectiveness of a hybrid hearing conservation program (HCP) on second- and third-graders’ knowledge of, attitude about, and intended behavior towards hearing, noise, and hearing protection. After reviewing the literature, the researcher developed a five-day hearing conservation unit based on best practices in education and preventative health care. The researcher measured students’ perceived susceptibility to hearing loss, severity of the consequences of hearing loss, benefits of preventative action, barriers to preventative action, behavioral intentions, social norms, and self efficacy. The researcher administered the survey before the intervention, taught the unit, and administered the same survey after the intervention. Results of the study found that the hybrid HCP was effective at improving students’ perceived susceptibility to hearing loss, however, the intervention did not improve students’ knowledge or intended behavior in any of the other factors. A large reason for the lack of improvement may have been caused by inconsistent attendance of the participants.
2014_COMM_05372951.pdf	2014	It is possible that a teacher and/or aide will have a child with a hearing loss in their classroom at some point in their career. This research sought to investigate day care and preschool teachers’ and aides’ knowledge of hearing loss, hearing aids, cochlear implants, and the type of accommodations being provided at their facilities. A survey conducted in Wayne County, Ohio; that included a 7-point Likert-scale, multiple choice, fill in the blank, and open-ended questions was administered to 100 day care and preschool facilities. The questions focused on hearing loss, cochlear implants, hearing aids, and classroom/ teacher accommodations. Overall, two of the major conclusions were if a teacher and/or aide were to have a child with a hearing loss in their classroom they do not appear to have the knowledge regarding appropriate accommodations to comprehensively meet these children’s needs. Although they do not have the appropriate knowledge they are willing to learn about how to accommodate these children with hearing loss.
2014_COMM_05372957.pdf	2014	The purpose of the current study was to examine how observers perceive children with visibly present cochlear implants. Specifically, this study attempted to determine the degree to which a cochlear implant stigma or “Cochlear Implant Effect” exists. Participants in the study were randomly assigned to one of four experimental groups. Each experimental group was assigned to a different stimulus. The four stimuli involved photographs of either a male or female youth in one of the following ways: wearing a highly visible cochlear implant; or without a cochlear implant present. After viewing their assigned photographs, participants completed a questionnaire developed by the researcher that measured the Cochlear Implant Effect based on perceptions of the intelligence, achievements, personality, and physical appearance of the child in the photographs viewed. Results from the current study suggested no presence of a significant Cochlear Implant Effect or stigma. Additional research should be completed to further examine this topic of great import.
2014_COMM_05374188.pdf	2014	This study explores the difficulties of first-generation African-American college students and how they use communication strategies to find a sense of comfort and belonging on a predominantly white campus. This study is grounded in Sandra Harding and Patricia Collins’ Standpoint theory and draws upon data from ethnographic interviews and autoethnography. This study extends the scholarship done in this field in regards to African-American students’ unique experiences on a predominantly white campus. The findings reveal that the usage of mentors on campus provide students with a great sense of comfort, while family and the attainment of the American Dream served as key motivating factors for success and remaining on campus. This study provides essential information and insight on first generation African-American students; thus, administration and staff of predominantly white institutions may be enabled to cater to and serve this population more effectively.
2014_COMM_05374242.pdf	2014	The debates are key events for presidential candidates to influence public support for their policies. This study examines the impact of rhetorical strategies during presidential debates on public perceptions of unpopular issue stances. Using generic criticism, I examined the first two 2012 debates between Barack Obama and Mitt Romney and uncovered four rhetorical strategies used by the candidates: issue framing, appeals to authority, use of rebuttals, and appealing to liberal and conservative presumptions. I then tested an example of issue framing from each candidate to determine its effectiveness in persuading public opinion on unpopular issue stances. My results showed that Obama’s use of the strategy lowered the favorability of Romney’s proposed economic policies, while Romney’s use of it showed no significant relationship. Overall, the study provides a clearer picture of how politicians use rhetorical strategies during presidential debates in order to gain public support in areas where they are weak.
2014_COMM_05374287.pdf	2014	The research questions guiding this study was: How is conflict portrayed on reality television? Specifically, this study analyzed how MTV’s reality television show The Real World: Portland portrayed same-sex, male-male and female-female, housemate conflict. The entire season was analyzed to gain insight on patterns or trends of conflict styles and subject matter of the conflicts. This study used the qualitative analysis of rhetorical criticism, specifically, fantasy theme analysis. The analysis provided two rhetorical visions for male and female conflicts: male-male conflict portrayed in The Real World: Portland was that males handle conflict in a short-lived, public view, shallow, and follow a competing-accommodating pattern; female-female conflict is that it is long-lived, deep, and follows an avoiding-competing-accommodating pattern. The conclusions of this study were the portrayal of males in conflict perpetuated dominant gender ideologies, females were portrayed in an oppositional way to dominant gender ideologies, and The Real World: Portland portrayed conflict in a negative way.
2014_COMM_05374335.pdf	2014	This study examined how the drama series East Los High represents Latina women, and how these representations challenge traditional cultural values and ideologies that regulate social expectations for female behaviors and actions. With a cultural studies theoretical framework, I conducted a textual analysis of the 24-episode series using a combination of ideological and feminist criticism. I identified three major themes in my analysis that were tools of empowerment for Latina women: (1) deconstruction of patriarchal dominance, (2) redefining familismo, and (3) the pursuit of education. My analysis revealed three major conclusions: (1) Adoption of an individualistic ideology encouraged Latinas to make choices that honor their own best interests, and by doing so, suggested they would be able to achieve anything they set their minds to; (2) Hegemonic negotiation of Latin@ and American ideologies served to maintain some facet of cultural identity for Latina women; and (3) East Los High debunked stereotypical representations of Latina women by portraying multidimensional characters with diverse aspirations and desires.
2014_COMM_05375218.pdf	2014	The purpose of this study was to examine how photographs from Andrew Moore’s “Detroit Disassembled” tell a story about urban decay through setting. Using narrative analysis, this study explored how other elements of narrative exist within the narrative element of setting, and how the existence of these elements helped create a story through the setting. Through the analysis of eight photographs, this study found that the themes of time, destruction and nature rising can be found in these settings and play an important role in the narrative of urban decay in Detroit.
2014_COMM_05375632.pdf	2014	This thesis examines the impact of a Bangladeshi agriculture based educational TV show, Hridoye Mati O Manush-Soil and Men in Heart (SMH), on increasing its urban audience’s knowledge about agriculture, and promoting an equitable view of farmers. Bangladesh is an agricultural country, and the industry is mostly run by rural farmers. The urban population is separated from this industry, leading to an information divide between the urban and rural populations on topics about farmer issues, such as the challenges that prevent farmers from advancing in the industry. There has been limited research about the influence of television media on the urban audience’s knowledge and views about agriculture and farmers. Surveys and interviews were conducted in order to study the impact of SMH on its urban audience. A total of 111 surveys and 9 interviews were collected and analyzed from Dhaka, the urban capital of Bangladesh. The analysis is significant because it suggests that the urban audience of SMH is positively influenced for its knowledge of agriculture and farmer perception. Thus, SMH has a strong impact on its audience for increasing awareness about Bangladeshi agriculture, challenges and successes. Moreover, the urban audience has more of a realistic and equitable view about farmers than those who do not watch SMH. Hence the findings of this study are expected to contribute to the growing scholarship on urban-rural linkage, and how the television media influences its audience about agriculture and farmers.
2014_COMM_05376346.pdf	2014	This study examined the unification appeals, cultural artifacts, and other musical rhetoric strategies contained in K’naan and Coca-Cola’s “Wavin’ Flag” campaign. This was accomplished by analyzing the Spanish, Greek, and Thai remixes of K’naan’s song, “Wavin’ Flag.” The three versions studied are 3-4 minute long advertisements in the form of music videos. The study employed a methodology of narrative criticism to rhetorically analyze the instrumentation, lyrics, and video of each of the three versions. The findings were synthesized, and the study identified the principal methods by which the versions imparted the campaign’s core messages in each individual culture it targeted, as well as overall. It was found that the values most emphasized in the campaign’s overarching narrative included spontaneity, national pride, vibrancy, and confidence. By highlighting the methods used in Coca-Cola’s extremely successful campaign, the study contributed to the scholarship in the field of musical rhetoric. The findings of the study can help not only with musical advertising in the same vein as the “Wavin’ Flag” campaign, but with musical education, protest rallies, and other fields that make use of musical rhetoric.
2014_COMM_05473467.pdf	2014	The study sought to examine how young adults who are deaf and hard of hearing feel about the quality and availability of their access to closed-captioned television programs, how their access affects their social relationships concerning media, and compared these results to those from young adults who are hearing. The researcher created a survey with Likert-type, multiple choice, and short answer questions rating the quality and availability of participants’ access to closed-captioning. Results of the study indicated that young adults who are deaf and hard of hearing are fairly content with the quality and availability of closed-captioning, their access to captioning does not have a significant effect on their relationships, and there are no significant differences between young adults who are deaf or hard of hearing, and hearing.
2015_COMM_06754575.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to examine listeners’ perceptions of Spanish-accented speech. More specifically, this study investigated monolingual and multilingual listeners’ perceptions of a Spanish-accented English speaker’s intelligibility, comprehensibility, accentedness, and fluency. A total of 109 monolingual (n = 56) and multilingual (n = 53) participants completed an online survey. The results revealed no differences between the way monolingual listeners and multilingual listeners perceived the intelligibility, comprehensibility, accentedness, and fluency of Spanish-accented speech; however, the semanticity of the sentence did play a factor in how the listeners rated the speaker. In general, the participants rated the semantically meaningful sentences more favorably than the semantically meaningless sentences. The researcher discusses the implications of the study’s findings for clinical practice.
2015_COMM_06770563.pdf	2015	This study examined consumer perceptions of environmental advertisements and differences in reactions towards various message strategies, specifically various sins of greenwashing. To accomplish this, 180 students from The College of Wooster viewed one of five variations of an advertisement, each with a different message strategy, and were asked to complete a survey about their level of environmental concern, opinion of advertising, and perceptions of the advertisement they viewed. The strategies represented in the advertisements were derived from TerraChoice Environmental Marketing Inc.’s (2010b) seven sins of greenwashing and included: the sin of no proof, the sin of vagueness, the sin of worshiping false labels, and the sin of the hidden trade-off. One message contained no sins of greenwashing. Results revealed that participants were greenwashed and unable to differentiate between deceptive and honest environmental advertisements. The advertisement with the sin of false labels, which had a significantly different level of perceived greenness than the advertisement with no sins of greenwashing, was most likely to deceive in regards to product greenness. Additionally, the findings indicate that personal ideologies and values may be more influential than characteristics of the message to perceptions of advertisements.
2015_COMM_06771653.pdf	2015	In this Independent Study I use the social penetration theory and the social exchange theory as frameworks through which to understand male friendships between heterosexual and homosexual men. In ethnographic interviews, respondents were asked to give brief narratives of their friendship with their closest male friend of the opposite sexuality in order to identify various elements of gender performance in the friendship. The study concluded that both heterosexual and homosexual men perform their “male” roles differently when they are in a friendship with a man of the opposite sexuality from theirs using self-disclosure and emotional expression as measures of gender performance.
2015_COMM_06780646.pdf	2015	"The purpose of this study was to examine the collaborative consultations among speech-language pathologists (SLPs) and second through fourth grade teachers as they work together to serve students with language impairments (LIs) in Ohio and Pennsylvania. In order to determine this, SLPs and teachers completed an electronic survey questioning their opinions of their collaborations. This study investigated the opinions of SLPs and teachers about the importance of collaborative consultations, as well as the logistics of the relationship, such as their level of awareness, roles and responsibilities within service provision, and management of students’ goals. The results of this study revealed that SLPs and teachers had similar opinions regarding the use of collaborative consultations to serve students with LIs; however, they failed to use it frequently within elementary schools due to potential barriers, such as time constraints. Keywords: collaborations, language impairments, speech-language pathologists, teachers"
2015_COMM_06787847.pdf	2015	"ABSTRACT The purpose of this study was to examine two different mediums through which verbal abuse occurs in romantic relationships among college students. Looking at face-to-face communication as well as communication via text messaging, the different types of verbal abuse (e.g., name-calling, blaming, criticisms, etc.) were measured. The participants of the study answered demographic questions as well as a series of questions that attempted to gauge the participants’ perception of their romantic relationship, of their sense of self, and of the nature of the communication that they receive from their romantic partners both face-to-face and via text messaging. The survey was sent out electronically through an email distribution technique that allowed the study to reach the entire College of Wooster student body. The findings revealed that blaming and criticisms were the most commonly reported form of aggressions but overall, verbal abuse does not occur more frequently through one medium over the other. One major implication of this study is that romantic partners should be aware and cautious of common characteristics that abusers tend to possess, as they can be predictive of abuse. Keywords: romantic relationships, verbal abuse, texting"
2015_COMM_06802010.pdf	2015	The purpose of the study was to determine if level of motivation regarding health issues is related to level of processing advertisements for contraceptives. Through an electronic survey, participants were randomly assigned to one of three health concern measures. These three measures asked about acne, menstrual cramps, or pregnancy. All participants were asked to complete questions about their perceptions of contraceptives and advertisements. After completing these measures, the participants were shown the corresponding contraceptive advertisement. One of the advertisements highlighted the use of contraceptives for acne, one addressed the use of contraceptives for menstrual cycle regulation, and one focused on the use of contraceptives for pregnancy prevention. After viewing the assigned ad, participants were asked to answer a series of questions that were designed to measure the way in which they processed the advertisement. The findings for this study were not found to support the elaboration likelihood model, but there were correlations that could explained through the elaboration likelihood model
2015_COMM_06824146.pdf	2015	"The purpose of this study was to compare the performance of children with Childhood Apraxia of Speech (CAS), children with an Articulation Disorder (AD), and children with typical development (TD) on both speech and music tasks. More specifically, this research investigated acoustic parameters and motor performance in 12 children ages five to ten years old across these tasks. The specific acoustic parameters that were analyzed were fundamental frequency, average intensity, and the specific motor performance feature analyzed was timing accuracy. No differences among children with CAS, AD, and TD with acoustical features. However, there were differences among children with CAS, AD, and TD with Percentage of Consonants Correct (PCC) and Percentage of Intelligibility (PI). Additionally, there was not motor differences in timing accuracy among the children with CAS, AD, and TD."
2015_COMM_06824155.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to examine the perspectives of speech-language pathologists (SLPs) regarding the available effective therapy techniques for patients who have primary progressive aphasia (PPA). The researcher reviewed the literature on PPA in order to develop a list of therapy techniques that SLPs may use with patients with PPA. The researcher gathered data by means of an electronic survey. The survey included Likert-type questions and open-ended questions regarding therapy techniques for PPA in terms of perceived effectiveness, likelihood to recommend a therapy technique, and which therapy technique they would use with a specific variant of PPA. Questions regarding diagnostic tests, comfort level, counseling, and awareness were also detailed in this survey. Descriptive and frequency analyses were run on each item on the survey. On a 1-7 Likert scale (1 being the lowest option and 7 being the highest option) effectiveness and recommendations of the therapy techniques the highest option was never selected. Detailed answers given by participants are in appendices E-N. Findings from this study indicate a need to know how and when to stage for PPA. Furthermore, awareness, education, and literature on PPA must extend beyond the scope of a few professionals working with this population in order for other SLPs to be comfortable working with these clients.
2015_COMM_06824974.pdf	2015	This study was designed to investigate patterns of photograph posting on both Facebook and Instagram. The participants of the study were students at the College of Wooster. Using an online survey, the researcher quantitatively analyzed data collected from 106 participants, of which 91 were used. It was concluded that Facebook users have a different audience than that of Instagram users. It was revealed that photographs posted on Facebook were intended more for family members rather than photographs posted on Instagram. Instagram users view “likes” as a way to increase their self-image on social media. Additionally, Instagram users edit significantly more of their photographs than Facebook users do. Neither Facebook nor Instagram users are concerned about the privacy of various personal information on their social media profiles. Finally, both Facebook and Instagram users post photographs where they alter their appearance for the purpose of their audience members reacting in envy.
2015_COMM_06828694.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to examine Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s rhetorical motives behind his final speech, “I’ve Been to the Mountaintop.” King faced opposition towards his leadership and his civil disobedience method due to failed events prior to the oration. His goals for his delivery of the “Mountaintop” speech included reinstating his leadership as well as reinvigorating his nonviolent approach in the Civil Rights Movement in Memphis. I employed a cluster agon analysis, which is a branch of dramatism, to the speech. This Burkean method of analysis involved the examination of “God” and “Devil” terms and how they conveyed the ultimate ideal message King wanted his audience in Memphis and beyond to follow as well as the ultimate evil message King wanted them to avoid. King offered his audience of sanitation workers as well as others involved with the Civil Rights Movement a choice of whether to accept his message or not, while using his rhetorical discourse to eliminate division among the audience and convince them to go in the direction of nonviolent demonstration for civil and economic rights. This study helps uncover how “God” and “Devil” terms help speakers persuade their audience to take action.
2015_COMM_06834115.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to examine if there is a difference in word learning dependent on if the child heard the target word in static book or iPad book format. The researcher had nineteen preschool children from two preschools in Ohio complete the study. Before completing the study each child completed a PPVT-IV and a receptive and expressive pre-test of ten target words and ten control words. Each child heard two books one of which was on the iPad and the other in static form. The children completed a post-test of the ten target words immediately following hearing the words and then in the following three to four weeks to test any delayed learning. Results of this study found that the platform the word was presented in did not seem to make a difference in word learning. These findings reveal the need for educators and parents to support books in low or high tech form with word learning techniques and strategies. Furthermore, future research needs to improve the measures used to determine the word knowledge of such young children.
2015_COMM_06838284.pdf	2015	In light of both increased healthcare options, and avenues to find information about these health options, patients are now presented with a greater number of decisions regarding how they choose to manage their health. Health care options now include mainstream medicine, and complementary and alternative practices such as chiropractic, meditation, acupuncture, reiki, herbal medicines and yoga. Information avenues now include a wide variety of health care programming on television, magazines dedicated to health and wellness, websites, blogs, and facebook pages, to name a few. This study aims to identify patient or consumer information-seeking behavior in healthcare practices, with a specific focus on the newer treatment approach of integrative medicine, which combines both mainstream and alternative medical practices. Additionally, due to the trend away from paternalistic medicine to a more collaborative structure, this study will look at how increased options for care have influenced the doctor-patient relationship. While previous scholarship has focused on a similar analysis of communication patterns in healthcare, this study includes newer options for healthcare treatment and sources of information, and looks at college students, a less frequently studied population. This study uses surveys to uncover how a younger generation of healthcare consumers is using the increased number of sources and health options available to them. Studying this population is valuable because they may act as a predictor for future healthcare trends. It was concluded that patients have a desire to be active participants in their own health. It was also concluded that although conventional medicine is the treatment approach used by the majority, there is an increasing openness among patients to use complementary and alternative and integrative medicine. The research found that other than doctors, the main sources patients go to for health information and advice are family and friends and the Internet. The final conclusion of this study found a strong relationship exists among doctors and patients, with the opportunity to continue collaboration and shared decision-making.
2015_COMM_06852006.pdf	2015	The water crisis is a significant problem that affects millions of people around the globe. The nonprofit organizations of Charity:Water, Generosity Water, and Water.org are among the many organizations that are working to solve this crisis. The purpose of this study was to determine how water-focused nonprofit organizations use narrative on their websites to create an organizational identity. In looking at the elements of characters and themes on these organizations’ websites through a narrative criticism lens, the study led to three main conclusions. First, the organizations convey attributes of competency, diversity, and passion on their websites to encourage audience identification with the organizations. Second, the organizations depicted themselves as engaged in effective collaboration with a variety of groups and people in order to eliminate the water crisis. Finally, the messages on the websites culminated in the organizations asking for action from the audience member as a means to expand networks and increase potential identification with the organization.
2015_COMM_06852766.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between the severity of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in children and their auditory processing abilities. Children with ASD and children who are neurotypical were both administered the SCAN-3:C Tests for Auditory Processing Disorders (SCAN-3:C) and the Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Community (ABC-C) to observe severity ratings for auditory processing deficits and ASD respectively. The results showed that the children with ASD performed worse on the SCAN-3:C than their peers who are neurotypical. Also, this study found that the more severe a child’s ASD was on the ABC-C, the better the child performed on the SCAN-3:C. The major conclusions were that children with ASD perform worse on the SCAN-3:C than children who are neurotypical, which makes the SCAN-3:C a valid measure to assess how a child with ASD processes auditory speech stimuli and the SCAN-3:C may be able to help diagnose ASD.
2015_COMM_06869043.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to examine the ideological appeals of the Tea Party’s disdain for the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The artifact examined was Ted Cruz’s 21-hour anti-ObamaCare speech delivered on September 24, 2013, which was used as a case study and analyzed using ideological criticism. Ted Cruz built upon past metaphors of disease used by Truman and the right-wing to demonstrate the harmful effects of the Affordable Care Act. The Tea Party feared the changes brought on by the ACA to the United States healthcare system because it jeopardized American ideals and promoted socialism. Ted Cruz’s speech reenergized the tea Party, but creating further schisms within the Republican Party. His speech was one of the leading factors in the 2013 government shutdown.
2015_COMM_06872708.pdf	2015	The purpose of this research was to analyze the career decision-making and self-efficacy of adolescents age 15-19 years old who are deaf and hard of hearing, who attend or have attended mainstream school settings and who primarily use auditory verbal communication. This investigation endeavored to determine how much self-efficacy, or confidence, these individuals report having in various career competencies and if these individual’s level of career maturity is influenced by a hearing difference. Participants were contacted nationwide, and included in the survey protocol was the Career Decision-Making Self Efficacy Scale and the Career Maturity Inventory, Form-C. Results of this research suggest adolescents with hearing loss demonstrate moderate to high confidence in career decision making self-efficacy. Scores on the Career Maturity Inventory also approximated norms of students without hearing loss. Individual results varied on items pertaining to hearing loss in school, preparation for future jobs/careers and worry about hearing accommodations/technology and further research is suggested on this topic of career self efficacy and career decision making for populations with disabilities.
2015_COMM_06873312.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to see if there was a relationship between a students’ family backgrounds and their perceptions of family television. Characteristics looked at in terms of family background included parental type, sibling makeup, household income, area of living, parenting style, closeness, and values. Family television was looked at in terms of viewing habits, family interaction based on those viewing habits, relation to characters, and similarities between TV families and the participant’s family. A survey methodology was used to measure all of the above items along with basic demographics. The study revealed that the closeness of a family was influential to watching family television programs and discussing them as well as the connection and relationship viewers had with the characters in certain family television programs. Overall the study gives insight to relationships and comparisons of family background and family television that have yet to be researched.
2015_COMM_06876094.pdf	2015	This study aimed to explore the application of the uses and gratifications theory to Riot Games’ popular online computer game League of Legends. It analyzed three different motivations of entertainment, achievement, and social interaction which players have for playing League of Legends and interacting with others while playing the game. It utilized an online survey distributed to various League of Legends game communities in order to measure motivations as well as other game related factors. While all three of the motivations were shown to be strong, this study found that entertainment was the strongest motivation for playing League of Legends. Out of all of the factors analyzed in this study, it was concluded that the gameplay time per session and gameplay time per week had the most significant relationships to all three of the motivations.
2015_COMM_06879438.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to examine the ability of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) to identify the emotions of others in social situations. More specifically, this study examined whether there were accuracy differences in identification of emotion in a speaker’s voice within multisensory matched or discrepant social contexts between children 5- 16-years-old with a diagnosis of ASD and children with typical development. The results of this study revealed that children with ASD exhibited impairment relative to children with typical development on both matched and discrepant condition tasks. Children with ASD also exhibited impairment in emotion understanding regardless of age. However, children who were reported by their parents as participating in at least one mainstream class and/or extracurricular activity performed better on emotion perception tasks than those who did not report participation in these naturalistic social contexts.
2015_COMM_06880271.pdf	2015	 The purpose of this study was to examine the perceptions that white students at a small liberal arts college have about race, racism, and white privilege today. The researcher studied these perceptions through in depth ethnographic interviews conducted with several white college students. The students were asked about how they understand the concepts of race, racism, and white privilege, their beliefs about their prevalence today, their opinions on current race-related events, and their ideas about how racial issues should be combatted. The interviews revealed several themes including a lack of understanding of the terminology, an inability to decide whether race is relevant today, a belief that we will soon be living in a post racial society, a lack of awareness of race related event and incidents, and statements in support of a fight for racial equality accompanied by no personal involvement in said fight. The major conclusion of this study is that while all participants hold egalitarian beliefs, they live, speak, and act in ways that keep them isolated from people of color and allow them to maintain subconsciously prejudiced perceptions of other races.
2015_COMM_06880317.pdf	2015	"This research sought to reveal the perceptions of The College of Wooster varsity football team that were held by the college’s students, as well as to determine where the students received their information about the team in order to create a public relations strategy using Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC). The researcher created a survey that included Likert-scale and semantic differential questions to gauge how students perceive the team. The study targeted three particular areas of perception: academics, ethics, and campus involvement. Results of the study found that the students have relatively neutral perceptions of the team and receive the majority of their information through Internet based mediums or through face-to-face conversation.
2015_COMM_06880352.pdf	2015	"The Harry Potter series has been such a big aspect within my life but it has also become a huge cultural phenomenon in not just our society but around the world. The purpose of this paper is to examine how female characters are portrayed in the Harry Potter films. Through feminist analysis, I will investigate the representations of Bellatrix Lestrange, Molly Weasley, Minerva McGonagall, and Nymphadora Tonks. Past scholarship that takes a feminist analysis course, when looking at the depiction of women in the series, has mainly been focused on key female figures such as Hermione Granger and Ginny Weasley. Other important and heavily featured characters like Minerva McGonagall, Nymphadora Tonks, Bellatrix Lestrange, and Molly Weasley have not received as much scholarly attention. While there are eight total films in the series, I will specifically be looking at the portrayals of these characters in: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 1, and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 2. These three films were selected because the four characters are all present and there is less scholarship on the newer films within the series. Hence, I will employ feminist analysis to explore the representations of older female characters in Harry Potter by looking at the emerging patterns of these representations.
2015_COMM_06880388.pdf	2015	The wedding industry is valued at $70 billion dollars in the United States and it is important to understand the role that the media plays in this growing industry. This thesis examines the role that the media plays when women are constructing their wedding. The purpose of the study is to understand how the media is pressuring women to create the “perfect wedding.” Furthermore, not a lot of research exists on the wedding media and this study analyzed the messages and images that women are receiving from different forms of media. In addition, how the messages and images they are receiving from the media help to create the understanding of what a wedding should look like. To arrive to the major conclusions of this study ethnographic interviews were conducted with six participants: 2 former brides, 2 soon-to-brides, and 2 wedding planners. This analysis is significant because its findings suggest that the media is largely contributing to how women perceive weddings and is creating this desire to have a glamorous and “perfect wedding.”
2015_COMM_06880425.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to examine the effect, if any, of Autism Assistance Dogs (AADs) on the pragmatic abilities of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Parents of children with ASD who had received an AAD while the child was preschool- to elementary school-aged responded to an online survey regarding social language of their child before and after receiving an AAD. Willing participants also took part in a follow-up interview with the researcher, in order for the researcher to further understand any effect that their child’s AAD had on social language. The results of this study revealed that parents reported significantly improved pragmatic abilities of their child after receiving an AAD. Further research should be conducted in order to fully attribute the improved pragmatics to the receipt of an AAD.
2015_COMM_06880520.pdf	2015	"The purpose of this study is to examine the different persuasion techniques utilized by the head coaches, who are members of the National Collegiate Athletic Association for the United States’ Division III program, when recruiting a high school student-athlete without having the ability to award athletic scholarship money. This study will also provide information about how team identity plays a role when recruiting athletes into a specific program. This study interviews three Division III men’s basketball coaches, and three Division III women’s basketball coaches. Three themes emerged after conducting the study. First, each coach shapes his or her team to fit a certain team identity, and recruit certain players that fit into their team identity and system. Second, coaches and current players use identification to connect personally with the recruits and to create a comfortable environment. Last, the coaches and currents players create a positive vision of the future that allows the recruit to experience what college life would be like at their institutions. Within the process, there are two primary areas of emphasis: academics—which are equally important to a recruit’s athletic talent—and the current players. Each theme is part of a process that must be in place and are intertwined in order to guarantee a success recruiting process. Other scholars who will consider conducting more research on this topic should interview recruits and players, and also shadow different coaches while they are in the recruiting process."
2015_COMM_06880812.pdf	2015	This study examined how two films directed by Hayao Miyazaki, Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away, represent women in a perspective consistent with transnational feminism. Through a transnational feminist analysis, I conducted a textual analysis of the two films. I identified two themes within the films that relate to important issues in transnational feminism: globalization and the nation-state. Globalization appeared in both films, emphasizing its colonizing foundations in Princess Mononoke and its capitalist momentum in Spirited Away. The concept of the nation-state emerged most clearly in Princess Mononoke through a clear separation of civilization and nature. My analysis of each film established how Miyazaki depicts globalization and the nation-state to be oppressive toward women. In Princess Mononoke he does this by connecting femininity with the natural world and portraying the gendered forest as a victim of a violent and masculine human society. Similarly, his representation of capitalism in Spirited Away commodifies, targets, and divides women. The main characters of both films also perform gender in non-stereotypical ways, revealing a complexity of identity coherent with transnational feminist views. The accurate representation of global and patriarchal influences, as well as the characters’ intentional defiance of gender norms, led me to conclude that Miyazaki’s depictions of gender oppression agree with a transnational feminist perspective.
2015_COMM_06881126.pdf	2015	Visual Communication is one of the main influences of society. Today, advertisements predominately use visual communication to persuade consumers to buy certain products and brands. Because of the huge increase of consumer culture, it is essential to analyze and understand the persuasion tactics advertisements use to influence consumers. The purpose of my study is to examine two different fashion brands with a similar consumer target group and compare the persuasion tactics used in the video advertisements that impacts the decision making process of the consumer. With the use of textual analysis, I hoped to gain a better understanding of the advertising industry and its role in consumer culture. Specifically, I analyzed the fashion brands Chanel and Dior and looked at one video advertisement to represent each brand. The four themes discussed in my study were the advertisements use of setting, color, objectification, and woman to persuade to consumers. Overall, I found that these advertisements use similar methods to communicate the ideal woman, but communicate different views on what makes the ideal woman.
2015_COMM_06881367.pdf	2015	The phenomenon of voluntourism – a combination of travel and volunteering, most often in a country other than one’s own – is steadily becoming a more and more common trend. As such, it was timely to conduct an analysis on the messages that the organizations that operate these programs use to attract participants, and the underlying ideology conveyed within these. The purpose of this study was to examine the websites of three such organizations (Cross-Cultural Solutions, Global Citizens Network, and Global Volunteers) in order to identify and analyze the ideological characteristics that they present. By examining these from a postcolonial perspective, I critiqued the ways in which these sites rely on a framework of division between volunteer and host, as well as the propagation of unequal power relationships within this division, in order to encourage potential volunteers’ participation. I further compared these prevailing rhetorical strategies with the organizations’ mission and vision statements, revealing a lack of fidelity to the values that they profess therein.
2015_COMM_06881641.pdf	2015	The purpose of this investigation was to analyze if having the ability to set conditions influences one’s willingness to give. After asking participants to donate to a charity, donors were able to set conditions by specifying how the charity would use their donations. While past research has studied giving and prosocial behaviors in numerous ways, the idea of conditional giving has yet to be examined. This research, therefore, enhanced current scholarship by introducing the notion of conditional scenarios—situations that enable donors to control how their contribution is used. After conducting a controlled experiment, it was found that having the ability to set conditions does not significantly affect low or highly paternalistic donors’ giving behaviors. However, although conditional scenarios, paternalism, empathy, and prosocial values had no impact on giving, personal identity did significantly increase the probability that one would donate. Future studies could extend research on conditional scenarios by testing a larger sample size and examining whether other personality or identity attributes affect people’s decisions to act prosocially.
2015_COMM_06881650.pdf	2015	"The purpose of this study was to determine whether three different types of verbal message appeals in advertisements affected the viewers’ attitude towards the product being advertised and towards the advertisement. The study explored whether individuals who viewed an advertisement with a positive emotional advertisement appeal, negative emotional appeal, or informational appeal differed in their attitude towards the product as well as the level of memorability, believability, and negative attitude (towards the product). Participants were also asked to rank the advertisement based on how cheerful, emotional, humorous, natural, irritating, and understandable they considered the advertisement. Before testing advertisement effects, individual factors including: social comparison, body satisfaction, self-esteem, workout patterns, and eating patterns were explored. In addition, factors such as whether the participant had dieted before, used a dietary supplement, read health magazines and whether they play a sport in college were explored. Results did not show significant effects between the message appeals and pre-test concepts however, there was a significant effect between messages on how cheerful, humorous, and understandable they ranked the advertisements. Key Terms: Message Appeal, weight-loss supplement"
2015_COMM_06881653.pdf	2015	 Music is pervasive. It exists in every aspect of our society. Because of this simple fact, it is important to critically analyze the ways in which artists can use their music in order to be persuasive. The purpose of this study was to critically examine the ways in which Bruce Cockburn, a Canadian singer-songwriter, used both his lyrics and his music to critique certain ideologies and propose others as alternatives. In order to complete this analysis, I employed the method of ideological criticism, as well as the framework of Irvine and Kirkpatrick’s six key musical variables. The combination of these two methods allowed me to analyze for meaning both the lyrics of the songs, as well as the music. Cockburn often critiques the ideology of capitalism, often noting how damaging it is to what he refers to as “north-south relations.” As an alternative, he proposes an ideology of interconnectedness, an ideology that will allow for the people of the world to see the deeper connections between every aspect of the world. By critiquing this capitalist ideology through music, Cockburn’s argument is greatly enhanced as the music contributes something that mere words simply cannot.
2015_COMM_06881794.pdf	2015	This study was designed to compare the clinical practices followed by audiologists when fitting hearing aids on mission trips to developing countries, to those used by audiologists in the United States. The researcher developed a survey that identified and investigated both groups of audiologists independently. Survey topics were tailored to compare both samples, as well as analyze each group separately to provide more context about each participants’ experience fitting hearing aids. Results of the study suggested that audiologists on mission trips to developing nations complete significantly different protocols than those use by audiologists in the U.S. Audiologists fitting hearing aids in the United States frequently completed fundamental clinical practices, while seldomly performing many specific practices recommended by several best practice guidelines. Additionally, audiologists dispensing hearing aids in developing nations frequently completed some very basic hearing assessments, while rarely completing many U.S. recommended clinical practices. This is not to say that fitting practices used abroad are necessarily inappropriate, as they must be considered within the context of the fitting environment. Additional research should be completed to further examine this topic.
2015_COMM_06882271.pdf	2015	"The purpose of this study was to explore the effectiveness of a pre-service teacher’s short-term focused intervention program designed to foster emergent literacy skills in preschool-aged children living in poverty. The researcher created an intervention program providing children attending Head Start Preschool with additional Emergent Literacy focused lessons. These lessons were composed of shared book reading, tactile alphabet activities and alphabet craft projects, during their normal classroom routine. The researcher assessed the children prior to intervention using the Test of Preschool Early Literacy (TOPEL), and after intervention to assess growth in emergent literacy skills. Results of the study found that the children did not exhibit growth in their emergent literacy skills but maintained the same level of emergent literacy skills after a winter break from school. "
2015_COMM_06883852.pdf	2015	The purpose of this study was to analyze the representations of gender and sexuality in The Croods, Brave, Hotel Transylvania, and The Pirate Fairy, contemporary animated children's films released within the past five years. In order to complete this study, I used feminist analysis. Feminist analysis is a qualitative method and involves the process of studying gender in media. It seeks to uncover the underlying construction and perpetuation of gender stereotypes and representations. After the completion of my analysis, five major themes emerged as well as two major conclusions. The five themes were; the presence of a “protector father figure,” the presence of an undermined female heroine, the presence of a “male interest,” non-conventional representations of gender, and “construction of compulsory heterosexual romance.” The two major conclusions were; that there has been progress in the amount and types of representations, and that there is still progress to be made.
2015_COMM_06890654.pdf	2015	"The broad goal of this investigation was to examine vocal health among college student singers. The specific purpose of this study was two-fold. First, I investigated the level of knowledge of various vocal-health techniques among student singers. Second, I examined the students’ practice of vocal-health techniques. Students with varied vocal performance backgrounds participated in order to determine whether these aspects differ among students as a function of prior training and vocal experience.Surveys were distributed to students involved in various levels of vocal performance at the College. Participants were grouped into three levels of experience based on their vocal performance activities at Wooster. Topics of the survey questions included students’ current knowledge of vocal health techniques, practice habits, and expected occupation to infer the level daily vocal use.The findings revealed four conclusions: the existence of significant differences among levels regarding qualitative and quantitative measures of knowledge, identification of behaviors that negatively impact vocal health is easier than identification of behaviors that positive impact vocal health, the discrepancy between ability to define and identify vocally healthy behaviors across levels, and self-reported behaviors do not differ among groups indicating knowledge of vocal health techniques does not result in implementation of techniques."
2015_COMM_07064293.pdf	2015	In light of both increased healthcare options, and avenues to find information about these health options, patients are now presented with a greater number decisions regarding how they choose to manage their health. Health care options now include mainstream medicine, and alternative practices such as chiropractic, meditation, acupuncture, reiki, herbal medicines and yoga. Information avenues now include a wide variety of health care programming on television, magazines dedicated to health and wellness, websites, blogs, and facebook pages, to name a few. This study aims to identify patient or consumer information-seeking behavior in healthcare practices, with a specific focus on the newer treatment approach of integrative medicine, which combines both mainstream and alternative medical practices. Additionally, due to the trend away from paternalistic medicine to a more collaborative structure, this study will look at how increased options for care have influenced the doctor-patient relationship. While previous scholarship has focused on a similar analysis of communication patterns in healthcare, this study includes newer options for healthcare treatment and sources of information, and looks at college students, a less frequently studied population. This study uses surveys to uncover how a younger generation of healthcare consumers is using the increased number of sources and health options available to them. Studying this population is valuable because they may act as a predictor for future healthcare trends. It was concluded that patients have a desire to be active participants in their own health. It was also concluded that although conventional medicine is the treatment approach used by the majority, there is an increasing openness among patients to use alternative and integrative medicine. The research found that other than doctors, the main sources patients go to for health information and advice are family and friends and the Internet. The final conclusion of this study found a strong relationship exists among doctors and patients, with the opportunity to continue collaboration and shared decision-making. 
2016_COMM_08249394.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study was to examine speech-language pathologists’ general knowledge of four voice treatments (traditional speech therapy, the Lombard effect, SPEAK OUT!®, and the Lee Silverman Voice Treatment) used to remediate the vocal symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. Parkinson’s disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder therefore, it is important for clinicians to be educated about the voice treatments that can used to decrease the vocal symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. This study was conducted by having members of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association fill out an online survey. The results indicated that speech-language pathologists who considered themselves to be voice disorder specialists were more familiar with voice treatments for the vocal symptoms of Parkinson’s disease than general speech-language pathologists.
2016_COMM_08284696.pdf	2016	Today, the presence of humorous advertisements is a given across almost any medium. This field experiment focused on humor in advertisements and the need for cognition, argumentativeness, and humor orientation personality characteristics. Specifically, applying the elaboration likelihood model to explain how the presence of humor in advertisements and these personality traits combined to influence critical thinking about and information processing of claims presented in advertisements. Data gathered through surveys sent to College of Wooster students showed little significant difference between personality characteristics in responses to humorous ads and non-humorous ads, nor in critical thinking between the ad types. These results suggest further evidence of the distracting nature of humor in advertisements, and provide strong implications of how humor functions as a peripheral cue in the elaboration likelihood model. Additionally, it reinforces the validity of the model in application to engagement with mediated texts.
2016_COMM_08290472.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study was to investigate elderly adults with dysphagia. The study focused on patients’ understanding of dysphagia, the consequences associated with dysphagia, and dysphagia treatment. A total of 10 participants who suffered from dysphagia completed an interview-survey regarding their understanding and opinions of their dysphagia treatment. They were also asked if they understood the consequences associated with dysphagia. The results revealed patients were mainly unaware of their dysphagia treatment. More specifically, they did not know what was considered treatment and why that treatment was being used. However, participants did understand the consequences associated with dysphagia. The researcher discusses the implications of the study’s findings for clinical practice and patient education and makes recommendations to investigate speech-language pathologists’ education methods and to observe dysphagia patients during mealtime.
2016_COMM_08293035.pdf	2016	The purpose of the present study was to investigate both the concurrent validity of a new measure that aims to assess parent knowledge of early language development, designed by researchers at the University of Chicago Medical Center led by Dana Suskind, M.D., and levels of parent knowledge across groups of participants.  More specifically, the study made use of the new measure, the Baby SPEAK (Survey of Parental Expectations and Knowledge About Language Learning, Infant Focus; Suskind, 2014), and a standardized measure, the Knowledge of Infant Development Inventory (KIDI; MacPhee, 2002).  Surveys were administered to both parents of children with and without hearing loss and scores were compared across child hearing status and other demographic variables. The results provide evidence for concurrent validity, as participants’ scores on the KIDI were significantly, positively correlated with scores on the Baby SPEAK.  It was also found that participants with a child with hearing loss scored higher than parents with a child without hearing loss.  These groups, however, differed in many other ways including age, education, and income level. Some significant relationships were found between demographic variables and scores on the Baby SPEAK and KIDI, although, due to high variability within the sample, further investigation is warranted. 
2016_COMM_08298828.pdf	2016	In this Independent Study I have used feminist theory and the standpoint theory to examine why many women are deciding to make the transition into the cannabis industry and how the cannabis industry can play a role in eliminating the gender inequalities that exist in other industries. Using a qualitative study, I interviewed ten participants and asked questions about why they were drawn to the cannabis industry, what businesses they were involved in prior to the cannabis industry as well as if they felt there was gender inequality within those businesses, how the cannabis industry could assist in eliminating gender inequalities within other industries, among other questions. In conducting this study, I have inferred that there are various reasons why women are so successful within the cannabis industry and why this industry can assist in eliminating the gendered hierarchies within organizations.
2016_COMM_08304683.pdf	2016	Previous literature on traumatic brain injury focuses on young child and older adults. This study seeks to improve upon this literature through examining the process and strategies speech-language pathologists utilize to (re)integrate 18 to 25 year-old patients with moderate to severe TBI into the work force. The researcher uses purposive sampling and the snowball method to survey speech-language pathologists in inpatient rehabilitation centers. The major conclusions of this study were that the participants felt prepared and knowledgeable to meet the patients’ needs, they used a variety of strategies to remediate patients, and that participants viewed the overall process of returning patients to either the workforce or school as similar and of equal importance.
2016_COMM_08305034.pdf	2016	"The war on terror is a significant event for the United States and is still being fought today. The story of Pat Tillman’s death is an important feature to the war on terror. Pat Tillman was a former Nation Football League player who sacrificed it all to serve in the US Army. The initial report of his death stated that enemy combatants killed Tillman while fighting heroically. Through investigation, it was later found that this was false and that Tillman was in fact killed by friendly fire. The purpose of this study is to determine the rhetorical characteristics of newspaper coverage about Pat Tillman’s death and how that coverage encouraged patriotic support for the war effort. In this study, I used rhetorical criticism, more specifically the method of fantasy them analysis, to shed light on the rhetorical characteristics of coverage on Pat Tillman’s death. First, the newspaper coverage creates a rhetorical vision of patriotic call to support the US war effort. Second, the coverage drew a connection between the military and athletics ina  way that served to justify the armed conflict. Lastly, this study raises questions about the links between militarism and athleticism in the United States.
2016_COMM_08325291.pdf	2016	"This research sought to investigate the policies and clinical practices regarding candidacy and auditory treatment for Hispanic pediatric cochlear implant patients at cochlear implant centers in the United States. More specifically, the study investigated treatment services provided to pediatric patients who are raised in monolingual Spanish, English as a second language (ESL), and bilingual English-Spanish speaking homes. The study made use of survey research to examine cochlear implant centers regarding their policies, clinical practices, and their referral processes for this specific group of cochlear implant recipients. The survey was distributed electronically through the online survey software Qualtrics via email to audiologists and auditory-based therapists at major cochlear implant centers across the United States who serve a large Hispanic population. Email addresses of all participants were identified from the three cochlear implant manufacturers’ websites (Cochlear Americas, Advanced Bionics, and MED-EL), the American Cochlear Implant Alliance (ACIA) website, and individual cochlear implant centers’ websites. The survey was also posted on the websites of the Special Interest Group 9 (SIG-9) of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association’s (ASHA) and the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf or Hard of Hearing. Results from the study found that audiologists and auditory-based therapists significantly differ on certain survey items related to candidacy and issues of bilingualism. The more important conclusion, however, was that no cochlear implant clinic has a written or formalized policy regarding how to conduct auditory-based therapy with Hispanic pediatric cochlear implant patients.
2016_COMM_08327680.pdf	2016	This study quantitatively examined the relational identity depiction of young adults on Facebook in order to determine if this was in any way correlated with their level of satisfaction with the relationship. Data was gathered for this study using a survey whose link was posted on the researcher’s personal Facebook account as well as the four current class pages for students at The College of Wooster, namely “Class of 2016,” “Class of 2017,” “Class of 2018,” and “Class of 2019.” In order to participate in this study, respondents were required to be currently involved in a romantic relationship, be between the ages of 18-25, and both they and their partner had to be Facebook users. In total, 198 responses were recorded from Facebook, 142 of which were used in data analysis on SPSS. The results of this study pointed to a few major conclusions. First, there was not a significant relationship between Facebook depiction of relational identity and satisfaction within the relationship. There was, however, a significant relationship between the participants’ “in a relationship” Facebook designation and overall satisfaction with the relationship. These two conclusions led to the final major finding that, in some cases, individuals may be posting about their relationship on Facebook regardless of their actual feelings towards their significant other; rather, their posts were designed for their Facebook friends to believe that they are satisfied with their relationship and their partner.
2016_COMM_08329839.pdf	2016	This study was designed to investigate individual’s motivations of self-disclosure through both Snapchat and Twitter. The participants of the study were students at the College of Wooster. Using an online survey, the researcher collected data from 83 participants. It was revealed that Snapchat was the most used social networking site among the participants. It was concluded that both Snapchat and Twitter users utilized these social networking sites to help maintain different relationships/friendships mainly established in college. However neither Snapchat nor Twitter were used necessarily to foster the development of different relationships/friendships. Additionally, neither Snapchat nor Twitter users were concerned about the privacy of personal information on their social media profiles. It was revealed that participants’ sense of loneliness did not necessarily encourage participants to self-disclose online. Finally, whether participants identified as an introvert or an extrovert also did not in essences promote users to self-disclose personal information online.
2016_COMM_08337180.pdf	2016	The topic of motherhood in media has been previously studied multiple different ways. This analysis differs from past studies in that it is looking at a family friendly show about lesbian, bi-racial, adopting mothers. The purpose of this analysis is to understand how motherhood is depicted in the popular family television program The Fosters. This analysis looks at how the notion of a traditional motherhood is subverted by this show, but also upheld in several key ways. The method being used for this study is a rhetorical criticism, specifically a narrative criticism with a feminist perspective. The major finding of this analysis is that although there are a few obvious ways in which Steph and Lena subvert traditional motherhood, for the most part their relationship upholds the ideals of traditional motherhood. Steph and Lena subvert traditional motherhood because they are gay, have an abnormal family, and embrace their sexuality. Steph and Lena uphold traditional motherhood through the characters’ dress and personalities. Traditional motherhood is also upheld through the themes of the importance of biological family and the necessity of a father figure in a family.
2016_COMM_08337543.pdf	2016	Representations of queer families in popular media today are few and far in between. The purpose of this study is to analyze the portrayal of the queer, transracial, international adoption that takes place on the family sitcom Modern Family. To conduct this study, I used queer theory and ideological criticism to analyze the portrayals of the Tucker-Prtichett family, consisting of two fathers, Cameron and Mitchell, and their Vietnamese adopted daughter Lily. In this research, I found that more important than being queer or adoptive parents, Cameron and Mitchell are shown as new parents who are figuring out how to be dads as they raise their first and only child. I also found that what kind of person Lily grows up to be will determine how audiences see her fathers’ parenting abilities. My final finding was that the Tucker-Pritchetts are beneficial to the queer community as a healthy representation of queer families. While they may seem one-dimensional, upon further inspection it becomes clear that Modern Family is a very simple show, and that the Tucker-Pritchetts are no more or less one-dimensional than any other characters on the show.
2016_COMM_08339677.pdf	2016	"Approximately 48 million people in the United States are deaf or hard of hearing in one or both ears. In order to better serve these individuals, private industries are required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to provide reasonable accommodations. Though ranges of assistive technologies exist, the provisions at theme parks vary tremendously. This study explored the variety of Hearing Assistive Technologies (HAT) provided by the two most visited theme parks in the US. To qualitatively assess the quality and usability of these accommodations, the researcher completed ethnographic observations at these parks; additionally, the researcher conducted interviews with park personnel to discuss the utilization of their services and probed for guest feedback. Finally, a quantitative analysis of the parks’ websites was conducted to assess their individual usability and service provisions from a vacation planning perspective. The researcher found that the accommodations made by these theme parks were generally acceptable, but a range of challenges and issues were found in the acquisition and full utilization of the services offered. The researcher concluded that the experiences for individuals who are Deaf and hard of hearing may differ in each park. Website content for both websites was generally poor, and information from the written materials was inconsistent with the actual park services and provisions. Further research is encouraged to keep this information up-to-date, to explore the perspective of non-English speaking park visitors, and further exploration of these experiences from the perspective of the guest should be conducted."
2016_COMM_08339749.pdf	2016	"This study is an ideological analysis of Dolores Huerta’s speech at the 21st National Conference on LGBT Equality: Creating Change that incorporates theories and concepts from feminist rhetoric, Chicana feminism, LGBTQ activism, and border rhetoric. The purpose of this study is to identify rhetorical intersection between Chicana feminism and LGBTQ activism to determine if and how Huerta is able to encourage allied involvement. This study found that Huerta uses three overarching strategies—invitational binary, universalizing discourse, and engaging intersectionality—with multiple subthemes to promote intersectional activism. Her overall strategy is fragmented and somewhat paradoxical, reflecting the complexities of intersectionality.
2016_COMM_08341312.pdf	2016	Rap music is a monumental aspect of popular culture in American society that deserves to be critically analyzed. The purpose of this study was to critically examine the ways in which Tupac Shakur, a deceased rap emcee, utilized his lyrical and non-discursive musical elements to illustrate Black Nationalism. In order to complete the analysis of Shakur’s songs, I employed the method of ideological criticism. Utilizing an ideological criticism, I critically analyzed Tupac Shakur’s four songs “Brenda’s Got a Baby,” “Keep Ya Head Up,” “White Man’z World,” and “Changes.” Within these four songs, Shakur’s rhetoric illustrates his political voice regarding sexism, war on drugs, and peaceful empowerment in black society. This study helps uncover Tupac Shakur’s black activist rhetoric.
2016_COMM_08347937.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study was to investigate factors/variables and the importance of those factors during cochlear implant (CI) device selection by parents of recent pediatric CI recipients in the United States. The researcher created an electronic survey and asked audiologists and hearing-related professionals at various hospitals and CI centers across the United States to distribute the survey link to the parents of any of their pediatric CI patients who received CI surgery within the past two years under the age of five years. The survey included both Likert-type and open-ended questions regarding the importance of various factors/variables to the parents during their child’s CI device selection. Results of the study found that the participants ranked reported reliability and speech perception performance of the respective manufacturer’s CI device as the most important factor. Individually, the parents of Cochlear, Ltd. recipients found recommendations from others and the popular brand of the company to be most important; based on a limited sample, parents of Advanced Bionics recipients found the CI device’s waterproof capabilities to be most important; and, also based on a limited sample, parents of MED-EL recipients found the reported speech perception performance to be most important.
2016_COMM_08353193.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study was to compare the use of traditional print books versus an electronic form of book called e-books and how parental input during shared book reading between the parent and child may or may not change depending on the format of the book. The researcher had 12 parent-child dyads participate in this study. Each parent read two books. One book was read on a Kindle and the other was paperback. The researcher analyzed and transcribed the parent and child language used, and also scored the reading experience using the ACIRI. The results of this study revealed that the format of the book did not make a difference in how the parent read to the child. These results reveal to parents and educators that one format of the book is not superior to another and either can be used during shared book reading. Furthermore, future research should take into account sample size of the participants and interactive features that are available on books.
2016_COMM_08359165.pdf	2016	"Rap music is a genre that is flourishing in the music industry. The audience following rap music has allowed hip-hop culture to become highly profitable. With the growth of rap’s popularity among youth and young adults, many college-aged women have become avid listeners of this genre. While college-aged women seem to thoroughly enjoy commercial rap music, it is possible that women listening to music that constantly makes misogynistic references are not aware of all the offensive content in the music. It also may have a conscious or subconscious effect on how a woman may perceive herself and/or others. As a result, the question arises as to how college-aged women interpret and receive gratifications from misogynistic rap music. To carry out this study, I conducted ten ethnographic interviews with female students who attend The College of Wooster who listen to rap music five to seven days out of the week. Questions covered areas such as asking which rap artists and rap songs each woman listens to and how they respond to critiques about rap music being offensive towards women. The interviews were transcribed and analyzed using concepts from scholarly literature on the origins of rap and its influence on mainstream culture. It was concluded that college-aged women receive gratifications from rap music despite the misogynistic content because they dissociate the lyrics from the music.
2016_COMM_08371436.pdf	2016	"The purpose of my study is to examine the characteristics of mother-daughter communication about nutrition and exercise and how that communication influences the choices daughters make during their first year in college. I conducted ethnographic interviews in order to answer my proposed research question. These interviews were conducted via Skype as well as face-to-face. By using ethnographic interviews, I was able to gain insight into a dyadic relationship I could not observe in its natural environment.
2016_COMM_08376093.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study was to determine parental perceptions of the impact of Equine Assisted Activities and Therapy (EAAT) on the listening and spoken language skills of children who are deaf or hard of hearing (DHH). Parents of children who are DHH and communicate through listening and spoken language completed an online survey pertaining to their child’s hearing loss, their involvement with EAAT, and the impact that the parents felt EAAT had on their children. The results of this study indicated that parents observed a positive impact on their children’s listening and spoken language due to their involvement with EAAT.
2016_COMM_08386380.pdf	2016	This research sought to determine the levels of preparedness and procedures involved in the transition of students with hearing loss from an OPTION School to the mainstream classroom as perceived by the students’ OPTION School teachers and parents. The researcher created a survey for OPTION School teachers, parents, and mainstream teachers regarding the topics of teacher, parent, and student preparation and transition procedures. Results of the study indicated that OPTION School students are academically well-prepared for the mainstream. However, they are less socially prepared for the mainstream classroom and have not mastered self-advocacy skills prior to transition. The researcher also found that parents and OPTION School teachers were almost always collaborating throughout the transition process, but the mainstream classroom teachers were not often included in this discussion. Lastly, the researcher found that there was not a comprehensive or concrete protocol for any aspect the transition process across the participants.
2016_COMM_08386550.pdf	2016	Latinos are the fastest growing minority group in the U.S., calling for a necessary increase in research regarding Latinos and Latino families. The purpose of this study was to analyze the communication styles and dynamics within Latino families in the U.S. with at least one first-generation family member. Specifically, I planned to learn more about the division of gender roles, cultural and family values, and nonverbal communication within the family. Since I graciously received Henry J. Copeland Funds, I traveled to Denver, Colorado and Chicago, Illinois to conduct qualitative interviews with nine participants. Through the theoretical lens of family communication, bicultural influences, gender roles, and nonverbal communication from my literature review, I formed the basis for my interviews. After conducting and analyzing the responses from my interviews, three major themes emerged surrounding the major concepts from these interviews.
2016_COMM_08386708.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study was to examine factors that impact the culture of bicycling and the bicycle infrastructure of American cities. This study explores factors such as the history of cities, communicative cities, the history of bicycling, and why people choose to ride their bicycles. Past research on bicycle infrastructure has often been quantitative, focusing on numbers of collisions, though literature on cities and culture provided an important foundation on which to base this study. This research extended scholarship on the factors that exist within cities that shape how bicycle infrastructure is constructed and prioritized within cities, specifically focusing on Owensboro, Kentucky and Davis, California. The findings reveled that the physically built environment, the culture of residents, and the actions of the local governments are three of the most important factors in determining the presence of bicycle infrastructure within different cities. A major implication of this study is that a city’s prioritization to create more bicycle infrastructure is heavily dependent on how it thinks it can provide the most benefit to its citizens as well as the existing sentiments toward bicycling.
2016_COMM_08386793.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study was to investigate the hearing technology knowledge of speech-language pathologists (SLPs) currently working in public elementary schools in the states of Michigan and Ohio. A total of 95 randomly chosen SLPs completed an online survey regarding their hearing technology training, their perceptions of the need for this type of training, and their clinical experiences working with hearing technology in educational settings. The types of hearing technology included hearing aids, cochlear implants, and FM/Infrared (IR) systems. Overall, participants reported a lack of sufficient hearing technology training and low comfort levels with performing hearing technology tasks, such as changing the battery in a hearing aid or troubleshooting a cochlear implant. These findings suggest a need for a revision of graduate curricula to include more hands-on training and experience with hearing technology to support the growing number of students who use such technology in schools.
2016_COMM_08386804.pdf	2016	The overall aim of this study was to examine bystander behavior in cyberbullying situations.  The nature of the relationship between the bystander and victim was investigated to see if there was a difference in bystanders’ choice of intervention strategy and social support technique for acquaintances and family members.  Bystanders’ perceptions of cyberbullying and how those perceptions related to their choice of intervention strategy were also examined.  Participants of the study included students at The College of Wooster who were reached using the email distribution technique.  Those who agreed to participate in the study completed an electronic survey consisting of cyberbullying scenarios with hypothetical comments that represented bystander intervention strategies, items that embodied social support techniques, and questions inquiring about respondents’ perceptions of cyberbullying.  The findings revealed that bystander intervention in cyberbullying instances was generally lacking, however respondents indicated they were likely to provide social support to comfort a victim of cyberbullying.  A relationship was found between bystanders’ perceptions of cyberbullying and intervention strategy choice in that the more likely bystanders were to perceive cyberbullying as an overall topic of concern that occurs frequently in society and is as harmful as traditional bullying, the more likely they were to defend victims online.  
2016_COMM_08386833.pdf	2016	"The purpose of this study was to examine the level of awareness professionals have of paradoxical vocal fold motion (PVFM) and the diagnostic controversy that often presents with this disorder. More specifically, this study investigated the awareness among speech-language pathologists (SLPs), primary care physicians PCPs), and athletic trainers (ATs) on their overall familiarity with the disorder as well as their knowledge of the symptoms, etiology, diagnostic criteria, treatments, and differential diagnoses for PVFM. A total of 198 SLPs (n= 117), PCPs (n=39), and ATs (n=42) completed an online survey. The results revealed SLPs to be significantly more familiar with PVFM than ATs, and showed that ATs thought laryngoscopy was significantly more important for acquiring a definitive diagnoses than SLPs. Results also indicated significant differences between SLPs and PCPs, in that SLPs found case history to be more important than PCPs, while PCPs found exercise challenge testing to be more important that SLPs. PCPs also scored significantly higher than SLPs did for determining what other disorders PVFM gets misdiagnosed as. No significant differences were found between PCPs and ATs. In general, ATs had a lower level of awareness of PVFM relative to the other two groups. Furthermore, although SLPs had more patient experience, SLPs and PCPs were comparable in their knowledge of PVFM. The researcher discusses the implications of the study’s findings for clinical practice.
2016_COMM_08386900.pdf	2016	"The purpose of this study was to determine if there was a difference in preschool children’s language samples when they were collected in the presence of a therapy dog compared to when they were not in the presence of a therapy dog. Specifically under investigation were the following measures: MLU, NDW, NTW, and mean turn length. The children involved in the study participated in two separate language samples, one in the presence of a therapy dog with a toy set, and the other one not in the presence of a therapy dog with a different toy set. The researcher also assessed the differences across language status between children with typically developing language and children with language impairments. Although this study revealed overall that there is no significant difference in children’s language samples when they are gathered in the presence of a therapy dog, important implications were found.
2016_COMM_08386944.pdf	2016	In this study an analysis was conducted of language-based learning disabilities with a focus on dyslexia. Information was gathered from six participants by conducting ethnographic interviews. Research found that each individual experienced unique challenges, but shared a common need for a variety of accommodations depending on the severity of his or her learning disability(ies). Each participant was affected differently by the discourse and stigmas associated with his or her learning disability(ies). The study concluded that despite the variations in their personal and educational journeys, each participant felt nothing would hold them back from accomplishing their goals.
2016_COMM_08387018.pdf	2016	This study was designed to examine the decision-making process of cochlear implant audiologists who treat pediatric bilateral cochlear implant candidates. The researcher developed an electronic survey to identify the most important factors that audiologists consider when choosing between bilateral sequential or bilateral simultaneous cochlear implants for pediatric recipients. The results of the study showed that all the participants valued binaural hearing. Additionally, most of the audiologists primarily worked with sequentially implanted patients, and the most common interval between the first and second cochlear implant surgeries was less than one year. As a whole, the audiologists were more likely to recommend bilateral sequential cochlear implants to their future patients. This is not to say that they did not recognize the benefit of bilateral simultaneous cochlear implants, but they thought that similar outcomes could be achieved with short interval bilateral sequential cochlear implants. Additional research should be completed to more specifically identify the most common interval for sequential cochlear implants.
2016_COMM_08387019.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study was to determine how audiologists that treated adult clients/patients with tinnitus conducted the counseling aspect of their practices. The researcher sent out electronic surveys via email to audiologists that practiced in the United States. The survey asked questions including but not limited to – how patients have reacted both socially and emotionally to their diagnosis; the severity levels of tinnitus that the patients presented with; and the audiologists’ use of informational and personal adjustment counseling. Respondents to the survey stated that patients tended to react with a variety of emotions ranging from shock and confusion to relief and agreement. They also said that they tended to use informational counseling more than personal adjustment counseling in their practices. Other results lead the researcher to conclude that audiologists tend to become more sure of themselves as counselors as time passes when it comes to providing personal adjustment counseling. The researcher also concluded that personal adjustment counseling is a vital part of treating patients who have been diagnosed with tinnitus and hearing aids are a very useful way of treating tinnitus.
2016_COMM_08390560.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study was to examine the portrayal of Apple’s organizational identity in iPhone commercials from 2007 to 2013. After examining over one hundred American iPhone commercials aired from 2007 to 2013 using rhetorical criticism method of cluster analysis, I found out that Apple had encouraged American audience to join its community by appealing to commonly-held American values. Then Apple used induction process to associate the iPhone with the values through the repetition of these associational clusters: functionality and simplicity, indispensability, and community. Finally, Apple drew an association between itself and the iPhone and encouraged audience members to believe that Apple – as an organization – bears the stellar characteristics of the iPhone’s. This study reveals the rhetorical strategies behind Apple’s iPhone commercials from 2007 to 2013 that helped Apple to persuade American audience.
2016_COMM_08391156.pdf	2016	"This research sought to investigate current clinical practices regarding the integration of the profession of Music Therapy with communication treatment provided by clinicians on pediatric cochlear implant teams. This study also included an analysis of what Communication Specialists on cochlear implant teams perceived about the clinical value and effectiveness of Music Therapy. In order to do this, the researcher crafted two separate surveys to be sent to Communication Specialists and Music Therapists across the United States. Views of Communication Specialists were collected through a survey posted electronically through American Speech-Language-Hearing Association and a to Special Interest Group through an electronic posting via the A. G. Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing. These participants were also retrieved via email contact to individuals on over 50 cochlear implant centers across the United States. The Music Therapists were contacted directly by the researcher through a list generated by The American Music Therapy Association. Results from this survey research project found that a vast majority of Communication Specialists do not have access to a Music Therapist; do not have funding for such services; and desire to learn more about the field of Music Therapy. This study also found that many Music Therapists have never been trained to work with pediatric cochlear implant recipients. Additional research is necessary to more clearly establish the clinical benefits of integrating the two fields and the education and training of these professional groups.
2016_COMM_08466509.pdf	2016	"Play, as a teaching tool, has long been associated with the development of language, social, and motor skills in children.  Despite the overwhelmingly positive effects of play on early development, increased screen time and ubiquitous technology is redefining the traditional notions of what constitutes play.  A new genre of app that uses reflective artificial intelligence technology (RAIT) bridges the gap between traditional play and modern technology.  This quantitative study explored OSMO’s RAIT app Words as an intervention tool, which uses an iPad’s built-in camera to integrate physical manipulatives into an onscreen app, ostensibly shifting the focus away from the iPad’s screen and back into the physical environment, as compared to traditional, play-based intervention facilitated by a pre-service teacher.  Twenty-three kindergarteners participated in the study and were randomly placed into RAIT intervention or traditional, play-based intervention groups in either an individual or group learning context.  As part of the study, participants engaged in three, 15-minute sessions of their respective intervention type, and completed a pre- and post-assessment.  Based on the results of this study, participants either improved or remained the same in their knowledge of emergent literacy skills.  However, the type of intervention did not affect the amount of learning that occurred, meaning RAIT interventions and traditional, play-based interventions and individual and group interventions fostered emergent literacy skills at approximately the same rate.  These findings are valuable for early childhood practitioners, as they provide evidence of the positive impact of devoting time to emergent literacy interventions, as well as the possibilities of using OSMO’s Words app as a supplemental instructional tool.  "
2017_COMM_09440688.pdf	2017	While Vietnamese parents of children with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) experience great uncertainty and stress about their children’s development and adjustment to adult life, they have not received sufficient support. This study aims to identify the specific needs for social support of Vietnamese parents of children with autism. To carry out the study, I conducted ten ethnographic interviews with parents of children with ASD who lived in urban areas within Vietnam. The findings of this study led to four main conclusions. First, the parents’ needs for informational, instrumental, and emotional support varied according to their children’s age and level of ASD severity. Second, instrumental support was the most desirable type of functional support for the parents. Third, my study discovered the significant role of other parents of children with ASD in providing support for the ten participants. Lastly, the study recognized the parents’ high expectations for social support from the Vietnamese government and non-governmental organizations.
2017_COMM_09799727.pdf	2017	The purpose of this study was to examine speech-language pathologists’ (SLPs’) perceptions of both the nature and treatment of time-awareness deficits among elementary school-aged children with language impairments. Because an understanding of temporal concepts is critical to various domains of learning, this study is useful for expanding the literature regarding these deficits. A sample of 62 randomly selected SLPs completed an online survey that inquired about the prevalence, identification, and effective treatment of time-related difficulties. The results indicated that elementary school-aged children frequently struggle with a variety of temporal concepts, and that there is a lack of resources regarding time-awareness among this population. These results suggest a need for more research and materials that are specifically geared to address time concepts.
2017_COMM_09809490.pdf	2017	"This purpose of this study was to examine the language and news frames used by the New York Times in its coverage of the Brock Turner and the Roger Ailes sexual misconduct cases. This study looked at 16 articles published by the Times, eight that covered the Turner case and eight that covered the Ailes story. Using feminist analysis, this study looked at how the Times used language and news frames to either combat or uphold traditional notions and representations of gender. The findings indicated three major themes throughout the articles. The first theme is the discussion of the bodies of Turner, Doe, Ailes, and Carlson, be it in terms of their physical strength or social status. The second theme is the repeated inclusion of the victims’ voices in both of the cases, as well as the frequent practice of speaking through others. Finally, another theme was the use of thematic versus episodic framing, with the thematic frames more apparent in the Turner stories and the episodic frames more obvious in the Ailes articles. After the analysis of these 16 articles, I concluded that, while there have been improvements in news coverage of sexual misconduct cases, there are still changes to be made.
2017_COMM_09816242.pdf	2017	The goal of this study was to examine different persuasion styles and strategies to convey leadership traits through an analysis of successful entrepreneurs’ websites that revealed effective forms of self presentation through a digital medium. In order to collect data, a content analysis was completed. Three students at The College of Wooster used a codebook. For those entrepreneurs included in the study, there was no requirement besides having a business that was considered successful, whether that was in the large sector of business or the small sector of business. In total, there were twenty-two female entrepreneurs websites (businesses), twelve big businesses and ten small businesses. There were multiple conclusions from this study. First, almost all websites included both persuasive tactics and leadership techniques in their study in order to attract customers. Persuasion showed to be utilized more than a depiction of leadership on the entrepreneurs’ websites. Second, of all appeals created by Aristotle: logos, pathos, and ethos, ethos was found in all but two websites. Leadership was primarily shown through the trait of being focused, among others. These conclusions lead those who are creating websites to consider what the audience is looking for and what is found most commonly on female entrepreneurs’ websites. This information is then useful for those who want to persuade an audience or depict leadership in a future website using presentation of self in how to do so effectively.
2017_COMM_09818208.pdf	2017	"Telenovelas play an important role in communicating Latin American issues. Viewers watch and engage with this popular melodramatic medium on a daily basis. As a result, telenovelas are a valuable ritual for Latin Americans. Telenovelas affect how societies view themselves. They expose viewers to social and political issues with the aim of public discourse (Joyce 49; Pastina 165; Pastina et al. “The Centrality” 2). My research explores audience engagement with contemporary Mexican telenovelas, focusing on their views of economic disparity representation, and how those representations impact their understanding of self and society.To carry out my study, I conducted ethnographic interviews with 13 Mexican telenovela viewers. Questions covered areas including their demographics and education, telenovela viewing habits, and economic disparity indicators. The interviews were analyzed using concepts from scholarly literature on such topics as the movement from serials to telenovelas series, telenovelas’ characteristics, and the Cultivation Theory. I found that while economic disparity is not directly discussed in telenovelas, participants perceived it through fashion, setting, education, and language. Participants noticed that telenovelas contain fragments of Mexican culture, but these fragments are too obscure to be seen as accurate reflections of reality, or in connection to their identities."
2017_COMM_09827174.pdf	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of speech-language pathologists (SLPs) in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). More specifically, this study examined family-centered care and parent training provided by SLPs to aid families in the transition from the NICU to home. Previous research indicated that an infant’s post-discharge environment had a greater impact on their feeding behaviors than the hospital environment, justifying the need for this investigation. The results revealed that while SLPs indicated both that they agree family-centered care falls into their role in the NICU and that they commonly provide these services, the time they spend implementing family-centered care and parent training is less than the amount of time spent on other aspects of their role.
2017_COMM_09828320.pdf	2017	About six years ago, The Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging was first published, and this study suggested that hearing loss was independently associated with an accelerated cognitive decline (Lin, Metter, O’Brien, Resnick, Zonderman, & Ferrucci, 2011). From information gathered by the Lin study and other studies on this topic that was what sparked the idea for the current study. The purpose of this study was to follow-up on a study conducted by Mary Ellen Scherer (2013). This study’s purpose was to examine the perception and knowledge of audiologists from around the nation about the potential relationship between Alzheimer’s disease and hearing loss. A total of 75 audiologists from each region of the United States participated in this study by completing an online survey regarding their demographics, patient population, clinical practice, and knowledge of the relationship between Alzheimer’s disease and hearing loss. The results of this completed study concluded that audiologists were aware of the potential relationship between Alzheimer’s disease and hearing loss, but did not implement this knowledge over to their clinical practice.
2017_COMM_09828333.pdf	2017	The purpose of this study is to understand the uses and gratifications college students derive from Snapchat, a social media application. Social media have taken over the 21st century, providing technology that connects people and displays identities and images. Snapchat has steadily added to the advancements of the social media world and is widely used among youth, specifically traditional college students. While there is various scholarly work on social media, there has been little analysis specifically on Snapchat and how it is being used. To carry out this study, ten interviews were completed with college students to gain an in-depth understanding of the ways they use and are gratified by Snapchat. Two major conclusions from this study discuss how Snapchat is used to supplement texting, as college students use it as a primary form of communicating and contacting each other. Secondly, my study concluded how college students feel a sense of freedom when using Snapchat to post their daily experiences.
2017_COMM_09840090.pdf	2017	Organizational identities serve as fundamental building blocks to effective communication of an organization’s set of values and beliefs. At this time, when it is much more difficult for institutions, like liberal arts colleges, to market themselves to an audience, it is imperative that organizations use effective and ethical rhetorical techniques in order to communicate compelling organizational identities. In the past, the identities of liberal arts colleges have been researched in terms of written brochures and pamphlets. The purpose of this study was to further research by rhetorically analyzing the websites of three small liberal arts colleges. Through the use of visual analysis, I determined that colleges use themes of quantitative quality, presence: collapsing distance, and diversity in order to communicate their identities to prospective students and encourage them to apply to their schools. Quantitative quality combines two loci of argumentation, one favoring statistics supporting “more is better” and the other emphasizing the value of the unique. Presence pertains to the ability of the school to aid in prospective student visualization of themselves at an institution. Diversity, in the literature, uses strategic ambiguity to appeal to a wide variety of students.
2017_COMM_09842528.pdf	2017	"Previous literature regarding communication impairments in juvenile offenders has emphasized the high prevalence of undiagnosed juvenile offenders and the benefits of speech-language therapy. The current study investigated the service delivery speech-language pathologists use and challenges presented; role of the adolescent in a public-school setting and juvenile detention center; and how the process unfolds to initiate intervention for juvenile offenders. This study was conducted using mixed methods to understand the perceptions of speech-language pathologists who work in juvenile detention centers and public-school settings. The major conclusions of this study were: across groups the nature of communication impairments are consistent; behavioral problems do not present as a frequent challenge to SLPs in either setting; findings continue to indicate under-identification of communication impairments in juvenile offenders.
2017_COMM_09842594.pdf	2017	The primary purpose of this study was to investigate how familiar SLPs are with prevention methods that are implemented with preschoolers from low-SES families who are at risk for emergent literacy delays. Furthermore, the study explored how SLPs use prepackaged prevention programs and apply informal prevention practices. Lastly, this study addressed the barriers they face in the application of these programs. A total of 35 participants completed a survey where they answered questions regarding their familiarity with and implementation of prevention methods. The participants were also asked about the strengths and barriers of the prevention methods. The results revealed that the majority of participants were implementing informal prevention methods but were not implementing prepackaged prevention programs when practicing prevention. In this study, the researcher discusses the implications of the findings, limitations of the investigation, and recommendations for future research.
2017_COMM_09845735.pdf	2017	The purpose of this study was to determine the rhetorical characteristics employed by the twenty one pilots fandom in order to create and maintain a community online. The researcher details the history of fan studies and other scholarly information that have led to up to this study, in order to give a reader a better understanding of what has and has not been done in fan studies. In order to determine the rhetorical characteristics, the researcher collected almost 300 tweets from members of the fandom pertaining to the band and analyzed them using a generative criticism method. Results of the study showed four major characteristics were present in the fans' rhetoric: liveness, concert ritual, social support, and ownership. At least one of these characteristics were present in every tweet collected, and often would over-lap in certain tweets. One of the major implications of this study is that bands and labels should implement these characteristics in their everyday social media usage to create a more authentic community-building environment.
2017_COMM_09873967.pdf	2017	"My study examines how Betty Jean Lifton’s 1979 book, Twice Born Memoirs of an Adopted Daughter, emphasizes the prominent issues in the adoption rights movement, specifically the search for an adoptee’s biological parents and the right to information. In my study, I first provide a brief overview of the history of adoption in the United States from the first adoption laws in the 1850s through the introduction of the adoption rights movement in the mid 1960s. I then go into my analysis where I approach Lifton’s work as a quest narrative and offer an in-depth examination of her memoir. The analysis provides insight into how scholars can understand the adoption experience through Lifton’s adoption narrative and how her work relates to the adoption rights movement.In my study, I found that Lifton’s search for her biological parents was actually a search for identity fulfillment. In Lifton’s book, she faced challenges and set backs that allowed her to gain a better understanding of self and her adoption story. Lifton’s book serves as advocacy for other adoptees to search for their biological parents and to search with out romanticized notions about their birth parents. Lifton fought for the unsealing of adoption records so that adoptees in the future would not have to experience the same emotional turmoil."
2017_COMM_09911150.pdf	2017	This study explored how school-based speech-language pathologists (SLPs) address the social deficits of elementary school students with language disorders. More specifically, this study investigated specific intervention strategies that SLPs implement for students with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and those with language impairments (LI) in order to facilitate stronger communicative competence, as well as methods to assess and promote generalization. A total of 25 school-based SLPs completed an online survey regarding their familiarity and implementation of intervention strategies as well as knowledge of pragmatics, communicative competence, and generalization. Overall, the researcher concluded that school-based SLPs utilize a variety of intervention strategies, however, are not equally familiar with all techniques presented in the study. There are also discrepancies between what the literature indicates are optimal intervention strategies across six diagnostic categories of ASD and LI, and what practicing clinicians implement for these populations. Additionally, school-based SLPs perceive generalization to be valuable, and appear to use indirect and direct informal assessment to measure generalization. This study highlights the prevalence of clinical expertise in evidence-based practice.
2017_COMM_09922277.pdf	2017	 This study examines how voters for the National Baseball Hall of Fame discuss the candidacies of players on the ballot implicated in the use of performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs), the rhetoric employed by voters to defend their decisions to either support or deny alleged PED users’ entry into the Hall. Using Thomas Goodnight’s method of controversy analysis, 60 total ballots are analyzed (30 pro-steroid and 30 anti-steroid) to uncover the primary themes and arguments present in each side of the debate. In addition, a modified version of cultural criticism is applied to the texts in order to determine the extent to which myth – a key factor throughout baseball history – is embedded in steroids-in-the-Hall discourse. The study concluded that pro-steroid voters determined that supporting steroid users made more sense, while anti-steroid voters chose to reject steroid users because it felt better than admitting them. Myth, meanwhile, was rarely used as the foundation of any argument, but rather loomed in the subtext of the steroids-in-the-Hall discourse.
2017_COMM_09925176.pdf	2017	There is limited research on the benefits of accent modification services on employment. This study sought to contribute to the current literature by examining the opinions of speech-language pathologists and human resource professionals on the benefits of accent modification services. The researcher surveyed speech-language pathologists who currently provide accent modification services to clients and human resource professionals who currently belong to the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM). The major conclusions of this study were that there is limited awareness and knowledge by human resource professionals on accent modification services and that individuals’ communication, perception, and confidence were benefited more than direct employment benefits after accent modification services.
2017_COMM_09925211.pdf	2017	This study investigated the experiences of Doctor of Audiology (Au.D.) graduate students and practicing Audiologists with prelingual hearing loss. Questions were asked regarding their childhood social and emotional experiences with hearing loss, and past and current use of accommodations in their program or practice. The online survey included multiple choice, Likert-scale, and open-ended questions. The first conclusion of this study was that the Au.D. students primarily utilized preferential seating and FM systems during their previous and current educational experiences. The second major conclusion was that Audiologists primarily utilized recorded speech materials or CDs in place of monitored live voice. FM systems, and modified stethosets were used frequently in their clinical practice. The third conclusion was that the Au.D. students noted an overall contentment in their roles as Au.D. students with hearing loss. The fourth and final conclusion was that the Audiologists noted a similar overall sense of contentment in their positions as Audiologists with hearing loss.
2017_COMM_09925897.pdf	2017	The purpose of this study was to examine how the use of augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) Speech-Generating Devices (SGDs) affect the communication and the behavior abilities for school- aged children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). A total of 65 participants completed an online survey regarding how they perceived the use of AAC affected their students or clients with ASDs communication and behavior abilities; along with their knowledge of AAC, their knowledge of ASD, and their level of experience. Overall the participants reported that the introduction of AAC had a positive effect on the behavior and communication abilities of their students and clients with ASD. These findings suggest that speech-generating AAC is a viable option for both supplementing communication, and treating behavior problems.
2017_COMM_09927944.pdf	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate how faculty perceptions of the Millennial generation, who are current students, influenced communication with them in an undergraduate mentorship. The research revolved around exploring whether or not faculty agreed with the traits assigned to the Millennial generation, and how that might influence their communication and mentorship tactics. As a qualitative study, interviews were conducted with ten members of College of Wooster faculty within the humanities and social sciences. This study found that, in spite of research pointing to many traits attributable to the Millennial generation, the only significant trait participants agreed was shared by current students and influenced how they mentored was heightened anxiety. A key implication of this study is that, while there may be extensive discussion regarding trends in current students, it is important to investigate how those play out in real life in order to craft the best pedagogical and intergenerational communicative practices.
2017_COMM_09927977.pdf	2017	Music can play an influential role in society. The purpose of this study is to look at the American Idiot concept album brought people together and how the album is a coming of age story. To conduct this study, I used a narrative criticism. My key findings show that there are three major features have come out of my analysis: Journey from, for, and to home, Alone and Alien-ated, and propaganda, war, and media. These three features combine to show that the American Idiot concept brings people together and is a coming of age story. Ambiguity was the main way that the album brought people together and the Journey that the main character goes on is the way the story is a coming of age story.
2017_COMM_09930389.pdf	2017	This study was designed to examine undergraduates’ willingness and comfort levels on building interpersonal relationships with, and the development of, emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence. The participants of this study were students at the College of Wooster. Using an electronic survey, a quantitative study was performed. The researcher collected data from 272 students, of which 237 participants were used. The results indicated a general level of discomfort regarding building interpersonal relationships with technology, as well as the development of emerging technologies amongst the study population of undergraduate students aged 18- 24 years old. The reported level of discomfort was different amongst different groups of students. Individuals that used current technology the most were overall more comfortable with concepts such as technology having a personality, gaining consciousness, and engaging in interpersonal communications with humans than their lower usage counterparts. Reported gender did not have a significant impact on comfort levels.
2017_COMM_09932659.pdf	2017	Football, or soccer as Americans know it, has been dubbed “The Beautiful Game” time and time again. Unfortunately, in recent decades, this term has turned ugly. European football supporters have created a notoriously bad reputation for themselves due to a shocking number of racist occurrences during matches, and recently, with the rise of social media and the wider use of smartphones and laptops, on online discussion threads where messages reflect hate towards players and teams. In England, racist displays have been apparent since the 1970s, and they have not gone away. While steps have been taken to end racism in football, England remains one of the nations where these problems are most noticeable. The purpose of this study is to examine the rhetorical characteristics of English football fans’ online forum messages that reflect the ties among racism, nationalism, and national identity. In this study, I used rhetorical criticism, more specifically the method of narrative criticism, to analyze the rhetorical characteristics of online English football fans’ message exchanges while also implementing Critical Race Theory and Performance Theory to help facilitate my analysis. This study points to how an absent presence of racism dominates the online forums through the performance of fans’ nationalism and national identity. This analysis also describes how fans’ sense of nationalism leads them to question structures within English football that lead to poor team performance, but they still do not question their own whiteness or how structures within football may be racist.
2017_COMM_09934857.pdf	2017	Metal music is a genre of music that has gone largely unnoticed by scholars. The purpose of this study was to examine how the band Disturbed uses music to convey their social views. To do this study, I used generic rhetorical criticism to analyze four of Disturbed’s songs: “Down With the Sickness,” “Façade,” “Another Way To Die,” and “Legion of Monsters.” With these four songs, Disturbed rhetoric used word choice in order to invoke imagery, specifically dramatic language and metaphor, techniques that are helpful when persuading individuals. In addition, the band also employed the use of repetition in order to express the message of a song, while at the same time further persuading listeners.
2009_ECON_04637328.pdf	2009	This Independent Study seeks to understand how to improve the durability of peace in the aftermath of intrastate wars. Specifically, I research the role of implementation in achieving durable peace after the signing of negotiated settlements. Based upon a review of the literature, I begin to develop the argument that implementation is a distinct variable in peace processes. Utilizing a most similar systems comparative case study design I test my hypothesis that comprehensive implementation of negotiated settlements leads to durable peace. I offer process tracing case narratives of the peace processes resulting from the intrastate wars in Tajikistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Guinea-Bissau, and Liberia. I conclude that comprehensive implementation does lead to durable peace. My research also suggests that peacekeepers might be able to preserve an otherwise unimplemented peace. My Independent Study provides a greater understanding of the often overlooked role implementation plays in achieving durable peace.
2009_ECON_04637329.pdf	2009	This independent study project examines the effects of Structural Adjustment Policies of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank on political participation in three Central American States. Based on the literature regarding the effects of Structural Adjustment Policies, political trust in government, and types of political participation, I expect to observe increases in non-institutionalized participation and decreases in non-institutionalized participation following the introduction of Structural Adjustment Policies. After a three country case study analysis I find that my hypothesis is not supported. There is no relationship between Structural Adjustment and political participation. What possible effects Structural Adjustment may have on political participation are overshadowed by other variables such as levels of repression and security concerns. This is important for criticisms of conditional lending policies and the continued effectiveness of using economic liberalization to promote political liberalization.
2011_ECON_04637331.pdf	2011	This study addresses the impact that proper implementation of Core Labor Standards (CLS) has on economic growth. The theoretical findings lend support to the hypothesis that proper implementation of CLS increases efficiency of workers as well as investment in human capital, and thus has positive implications for economic growth. Additionally, this study questions the validity of variables and methods chosen by other authors examining similar questions and attempts to create a new measure of CLS implementation accounting for ratification of the relevant International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions as well as the political environment of the country. Using a fixed-effects model with panel data for three samples of countries from 1990-2008, empirical evidence is presented that suggests that higher levels of CLS in a country lead to higher GDP per-capita. It is encouraged that the findings presented here be utilized by Non-Govermental Organizations attempting to persuade governments to adopt and enforce the eight conventions pertaining to CLS.
2011_ECON_04637332.pdf	2011	Foreign policies designed with the intention of protecting domestic interests often have unintended consequences for foreign countries or groups of people.  Since the early 1980s the United States has been waging a War on Drugs in Latin America that has not only failed to diminish the production and flow of drugs but has also resulted in a variety of unintended negative consequences for Latin Americans. In South America, indigenous groups in the Andes have been growing coca leaves, the plant from which cocaine is derived, for cultural and religious purposes for centuries.  The leaves are chewed together by friends and family members in a symbolic gesture of community and reciprocity.  When consumed in their raw form, coca leaves are not a harmful narcotic and do not cause health problems.  Only when processed with certain chemicals does coca become an addictive and dangerous drug.  Indigenous South Americans have historically been impoverished, largely as a result of ethnic discrimination.  But when the tin mining industry, where most indigenous people in the Andes had worked since colonization, collapsed in the 1970s, this poverty became more extreme.  Many reacted by increasing their coca cultivation and selling the leaves to drug traffickers, and today many indigenous South Americans are dependent on the drug trade for their livelihoods.  The United States' War on Drugs has focused its efforts on destroying the coca crops of South Americans.  This study contends that this policy decision has negatively and disproportionately affected indigenous South Americans in three ways.  First, it has disproportionately decreased the economic status of indigenous people by threatening their only available source of income.  Additionally, it has made public perceptions of the coca leaf more negative and exacerbated discrimination against indigenous people who grow it.  Lastly, it has forced many indigenous South Americans to abandon growing and chewing a plant that is central to their culture and identity, thereby contributing to the erosion of ancient indigenous cultures.
2011_ECON_04637333.pdf	2011	The United States government spends billions of dollars every year to combat the trafficking and consumption of illegal narcotics, yet continues to face mixed acceptance of its policy from other countries involved in the drug industry.  Through this Independent Study, I sought to determine why these host countries accept or reject United States Drug Policy.  Specifically, I determined the impact of both the amount of pressure that the United States applies, and of the host country's domestic bases of political support.  Based upon a review of the literature, I developed the argument that international pressure does play a role on acceptance of U.S. Drug Policy, but conditional to the host country's domestic bases of political support.  I tested my hypothesis using a most similar systems comparative case study design.  Taking into account all controlled variables, I selected Costa Rica, Panama, and Guatemala in the 1980s as my cases.  I concluded that the variables do indeed interact as my hypothesis suggested: the governments of host countries accept or reject U.S. policy conditional to domestic bases of political support, and only then will international pressure play a major role in policy adoption.  My Independent Study provides a more complete understanding of the conditions in which host countries will accept United States Drug Policy.
2011_ECON_04637334.pdf	2011	This study theoretically and empirically examines the impact of political institutions and market structure on economic growth, particularly in resource-rich countries.
2011_ECON_04637335.pdf	2011	The first decade of the 21st century has seen China and India reach unprecedented levels of economic growth. To fuel their burgeoning economies, China and India are increasingly looking to Africa where the recent discovery of oil resources has spurred major foreign investment by the two superpowers. Comparatively, however, Chinese efforts to enter the oil industry in Africa have been more successful than India's. My research question, then, is: Which factors explain the differential success of China and India in entering the African oil industry? I argue that differential success is due to differences in the Chinese and Indian domestic political systems. More specifically, I hypothesize that Chinese entry efforts have been comparatively more successful due to differences in the following factors: (1) motives of entry (security vs. profit considerations) and (2) perceptions of China and India among African states. As a topic of interest and relevance for multiple academic fields, my research draws different elements from fields such as political science, economics, and international business.
2011_ECON_04637336.pdf	2011	This IS examines Bulgaria's integration policies for refugees, 1993-2010. It assesses the legislation as well as the ways in which policies have been implemented. In addition, it aims to present the main obstacles that refugees encounter in their integration into Bulgarian society.
2011_ECON_04637337.pdf	2011	This study attempts to theoretically and empirically analyze the incorporation of gendered variables into the Solow growth model. Based upon the fundamental form of the Solow model, as well as relevant literature, a theoretical model is constructed that integrates two gendered variables. Specifically female human capital, and female labor force participation are included in the model to test if gender has an impact on economic growth. It is hypothesized that these variables will have a positive effect on per capita as well as total output. This hypothesis is tested empirically using panel data from 13 MENA (Middle East and North Africa) countries for the years 1995 through 2005. The statistical analysis does not support the hypothesis, however this study finds that increased gender equality, specifically through the promotion of women's economic opportunities, does have a positive effect economic growth.
2012_ECON_04637338.pdf	2012	This independent study will examine the effectiveness of interfaith dialogue as a peacebuilding tool in post-conflict settings. Initially, International Relations as a discipline virtually ignored religion and its influence. Instead, it presumed that the world would move towards a state of complete secularism. Beginning in the latter part of the twentieth century, scholars have begun to examine how religion can be incorporated not only into International Relations theory, but also more practically in a wide variety of global interactions. Interfaith dialogue is but one way in which religion can be integrated into the peacebuilding process in a society that has experienced violent conflict. Using a comparative case study method, I examine interfaith dialogue in the peacebuilding processes of Bosnia-Herzegovina, El Salvador, and Lebanon. Because research on the application of interfaith dialogue is still in its early stages, this study focuses on gathering information, and identifying patterns and trends so that more concrete hypotheses can be constructed and tested in future research.
2012_ECON_04637340.pdf	2012	This Independent Study examines the role of the international community in either promoting or hindering the cause of anti-corruption in sub-Saharan Africa. Corruption and anticorruption have come to occupy an increasingly large segment of the international governance discourse and it has become common for donor agencies, foreign governments and intergovernmental organizations to incorporate corruption related policy prescriptions into poverty reduction strategies and aid packages. This has been especially true of sub-Saharan Africa, where externally-driven anti-corruption policies have at points been criticized for violating the principle of sovereignty and at other points been denounced as the face of Western neo-imperialism. Given their high cost and the controversy they have generated, are externallydriven anti-corruption policies a worthwhile endeavor, or are African states better tackling the problem of corruption on their own? This study seeks to answer that question by comparing three African states: South Africa, Nigeria and Mozambique to determine whether or not externallydriven anti-corruption policies are more or less likely to succeed than internally-driven policies. South Africa represents a country with a high number of donor-initiated anti-corruption projects while Nigeria represents a country with a low number. Mozambique is situated between these two countries in order to more rigorously test this study’s theoretical argument.
2012_ECON_04637341.pdf	2012	"Many theories have emerged since the 1970s to explain the rapid emergence and dominance of Kenya's Kalenjin ethnic group in the sport of professional distance running. This one group of people hailing from the Rift Valley has reigned supreme from every distance over 800 meters for close to 50 years. This study disassociates the group's success from genetic and geographical theories and describes how the Kalenjin society's cultural perception of the importance of ""masculinity"" in their men has fueled this distance running dominance. Using secondary sources on the culture, history and success of the Kalenjin as well as interviews with various members of the ethnic group residing in Iten, Kenya, this paper proves how engrained cultural elements fueled the Kalenjin men's move toward professional running and their success. The Kalenjin men who now serve as some of the top runners in the world all exhibit the same urge to prove their ""masculinity"" or ""manliness."" Beyond genetics or their high altitude training, this culturally embedded urge is what has primarily created what many call the ""Kenyan Running Revolution."" The use of oral histories and secondary sources provide depth to our understanding of this remarkable athletic talent. This project will contribute further to the study of Kalenjin running as well as to the general study of athletic talent."
2012_ECON_04637343.pdf	2012	This paper examines whether or not the inclusions of the two variables threat and a country's level of wealth augment the negative relationship between military expenditure and economic growth.  These variables are added based upon assumptions made in the realist paradigm, found in International Relations theory, that security is the primary objective of a state and that security is measured through power.  The predicted impacts of these variables are modeled based upon an augmented Slow Growth model.  After a discussion of the theory and a review of the literature on this topic, the model used in this thesis is specified and then tested empirically.
2013_ECON_04637344.pdf	2013	This thesis seeks to address both the evolution of international sovereignty norms and the process of state-level internalization of these norms by working across international relations theories. It poses the following, two-part, research question: have international legal sovereignty norms evolved, and if so, by what process have states internalized new sovereignty norms on the domestic level? It hypothesizes that traditional constructs of Westphalian sovereignty have evolved into a new sovereignty-modern norm, which is characterized by the emergence of positive rights in international law. It further hypothesizes that international norms frame domestic level cost-benefit analysis on the state level, which leads to domestic level internalization or rejection of these new norms in domestic law.  It tests this theory through the use of a comparative case methodology, which encompasses two series of quantitative content analysis and a series of textual analysis of state-level cost-benefit decision-making. It concludes with a discussion of the implications of the findings of this study.
2013_ECON_04637345.pdf	2013	This paper looks at the relationship between human rights organization naming practices and the allocation of United States Military Assistance from 1991 to 2009. By using both realist and social constructivist international relations theories the paper statistically analyzes the variables in question on both a global and region by region basis. Results show that higher levels of HRO naming are correlated with higher amounts of United States Military Assistance. This correlation was shown to be strongest in the regions of Central America, South America, and Africa. The correlation also appears to be limited to time period after the year 2000.
2013_ECON_04637346.pdf	2013	This independent study attempts to examine the deeper impacts of international environmental agreements through investigation of the impact of international environmental agreements have on human development. Although the research in this field is very minimal, this study attempts to add to this area of study through a quantitative analysis of the impacts of the agreement that is often deemed the most successful international environmental agreement, the Montreal Protocol. The results of the analysis suggest that the ratification of an international environmental agreement has no impact on human welfare.
2013_ECON_04637347.pdf	2013	Events such as the Madrid 2004 train bombings, the 2005 London bombings, and the 2009 shooting at Fort Hood Army base have many states in the West beginning to see homegrown terrorism as being as much of a threat as international terrorism, if not more so. This study aims to analyze policies that Western states have developed in order to address the homegrown terror threat. The cases of the United States and United Kingdom are used to explore how factors such as the understanding of radicalization and perception of threat impact the development and scope of counter-homegrown terror policies. Results of this case study indicate that a common understanding of radicalization may exist, leading to policies with similar objectives, and that the perception of the homegrown terror threat appears to influence the speed in which a policy is developed.
2013_ECON_04637348.pdf	2013	This study seeks to determine if multinational corporations attempt influence the outcome of international negotiations. In order to examine this, I conducted two case studies pertaining to international trade negotiations between the United States and the European Union. The results from my analysis indicate multinational corporations do attempt to influence international negotiation outcomes through various methods.
2013_ECON_04637349.pdf	2013	This study examines the role of Confucian culture at the government and societal levels in influence educational success. A comparative case study is conducted of Taiwan, Hong Kong and mainland China to adress this at both the government and societal levels. The hypothesis that culture matters in influencing educational outcomes is supported by the data.
2013_ECON_04637350.pdf	2013	In recent years, the international community has seen the Internet ascend to prominence in transforming the way people communicate, organize, and achieve common goals.  From an International Relations perspective, do we see the Internet as a tool used for principled good or as a weapon for the wicked?  This study examines the implications of Internet repression on the emergence of human rights issues held dear by transnational advocacy networks (TAN) through a comparative case study of Egypt and Syria and a content analysis of Newsweek articles from 1980-2012.  This study hypothesized lower levels of Internet repression would lead to greater success of human rights issue emergence.  Consequently, the inverse is expected for higher levels of Internet repression.  Using the number of Newsweek articles per country-year as a gauge of international discussion, issue emergence was indirectly measured.  Ultimately, within the limits of this study the hypothesis is proven correct.  Egypt, with lower levels of Internet repression than Syria, had a greater number of articles published regarding human rights abuses, whereas Syria had fewer.  Thus, the greater Internet freedom a country has, the more success human rights issues have galvanizing on the international stage, ultimately gaining the attention of the relevant TANs.  If identical or similar results are found in future tests of this nature, the implications of this information could be vast.  Such implications could include helping preempt human rights abuses by incorporating information and communication technologies such as the Internet into aid projects in developing nations.  Furthermore, TANs could use the Internet as a tool to expand their capabilities in promoting and campaigning for issues, leading to potentially huge gains in the fight for human rights across the world.
2013_ECON_04637351.pdf	2013	International election monitoring is a phenomenon that began to spread rapidly in the 1990s and has since become an essential element of elections in the developing world. This study assesses the relationship between the presence of international election monitors during presidential elections and levels of voters' confidence in the electoral process. Several questions guide the study: How did the norm of international election monitoring develop and how widely do governments adhere to this norm? Are citizens more confident in the efficacy and transparency of presidential elections when international monitors are present? I hypothesize that when governments adhere to the norm of international election monitoring by inviting international observers, citizens will have higher levels of confidence in the electoral process. I conduct a comparative case study examining the presidential elections in Benin, Mali, and Guinea between 1990 and 2011. Using election monitors' reports, literature surrounding each of the elections, and public opinion survey data reflecting citizens' perceptions of the elections and democracy in their countries, I test the relationship between the two variables in my model. The findings suggest that a positive correlation between the variables is likely. However, because no data currently exists that directly measures the impacts of international election monitors, the study ultimately concludes that further research must be done to confirm the positive relationship between international monitors' presence and voters' confidence levels.
2013_ECON_04637352.pdf	2013	"This Independent Study examines the relationship of democratic institutions and sound domestic policy implementation on the economic growth in developing resource dependent countries. Developing countries that have natural resource abundance are given an economic sector that should allow them a step up on other developing countries. However, history has proven that countries that have natural resource abundance tend to do worse off economically, this has been commonly called the ""resource curse"". This study attempts to solve the puzzle of the ""resource curse"" and find the root of the problem. Critiques on the resource curse suggest multiple cures for the curse including sound domestic policies. Given that the resource curse still exists, do democratic institutions encourage the implementation of sound domestic policies leading to economic growth? Democratic institutions provide checks and balance and transparency for countries that have natural resources, this provides an opportunity for countries to implement sound domestic policies in order to ensure prudent fiscal policies to allocate resource rents responsibly. This study implements a comparative case study, examining the cases of Nigeria and Botswana. Nigeria demonstrates a case that has low levels of democratic institutions, and Botswana demonstrates a case that has higher levels of democratic institutions."
2013_ECON_04637353.pdf	2013	Many policymakers and academics have argued that harsh military strategies are counterproductive in the fight against terrorist forces.  Using the behavioral economic constructs of the Dove-Hawk game and Monitoring theory, this paper strives to prove that cooperative strategies have the potential to improve results for both the government and the terrorist organization.  Monitoring theory makes the theoretical claim that the firm and the employee can gain through mutual capitulation and increased exchanges of wages for effort.  Similarly, this paper argues that both the government and the domestic terrorist organization can gain by utilizing more cooperative, incentive based policies, and less militaristic strategies.  The thesis concludes with an empirical test of the model's hypotheses using panel data on domestic terrorist attacks in 112 countries over the years of 1997 to 2009.
2008_ECON_04661787.pdf	2008	This paper focuses on the philosophy of development from an economic view and a more philosophical view. The economic theory of development will be explicated within the neoclassical framework. Neoclassical economics has been the leading theory used within the context of development and focuses on raising the GDP per capita. The proposed philosophical view of development shall be Amartya Sen's capability theory based on increasing the freedom of an individual. Chapters 2 will develop the foundations of neoclassical economics. From that foundation, microeconomic theory will be developed as development on the microeconomic level within neoclassical theory. Then the argument for the theory of neoclassical development will be explained. Chapter 3 will critique the means and ends of the neoclassical theory of economic development. Chapter 4 will focus on Sen's theory, development as freedom. Within this chapter, it will shown how Sen's conception of development differs from the previous theory as his theory is based on freedoms and not solely income levels. After Sen's means and ends have been explicated, they will also be critiqued. The sixth chapter will begin to lay the foundation for a normative theory of development. This foundation consists of three claims of development that are taken from the downfalls of the previous two theories. These three claims are concerned with the proper means, the proper ends and the place of culture within development. The final chapter shall address four kinds of claims concerning values within the context of development. These four kinds of claims are analyzed showing that the mistakes of the neoclassical and capability theory are made because these theories confuse these four kinds of claims together. With this analysis, the four kinds of value claims will be discussed within the context of a normative theory for development.
2008_ECON_04661789.pdf	2008	Previous researchers interested in studying the risk of acquisition have approached the topic from either a cost inefficiency or agency cost perspective. This paper develops a theoretical model that combines cost inefficiency with agency costs to explain how management inefficiency negatively impacts firms in a Cournot quantity competition analysis. These theories are then used to explain why some firms survive the market for corporate control and others do not. Utilizing a binomial logit model, the empirical results support the agency cost hypothesis, whereby firms with less executive ownership are more likely to be taken over. However, the results do not support the cost inefficiency hypothesis that firms with greater cost inefficiencies are more likely to be taken over. These results appear robust over a multiple number of model specifications and the approach of considering both factors in the risk of takeover is promoted for future research.
2009_ECON_04661792.pdf	2009	A philosophical critique given of the Neoclassical assumption of utility maximization suggests that utility is an inadequate theory of well-being. An outline of the fundamental assumptions in Neoclassical economic theory is given as well as a detailed look into the utility model. Next, an outline of Institutional economics is presented as well as its attack on the assumption of utility maximization. Institutional economists believe that wellbeing is constituted by objective needs that are universalizable. It is then argued that Neoclassical economists uses utility in reference to either two theories: a pleasure theory or a preference theory. Argumentation shows that neither the pleasure nor the preference theory are adequate theories of well-being. The author proposes that there are two necessary and sufficient conditions of an adequate theory of well-being: non-instrumental values and the appreciation of non-instrumental values. The Platts-McDowell objective list theory is presented as an alternative theory of well-being. The theory holds that wellbeing is constituted by desirable characteristics intrinsic in activities and experiences, and for those characteristics to mean anything to the individual he must first appreciate those non-instrumental values. In an attempt to reconcile the philosophical theory with economics, an alternative theory of well-being is given to be used in Neoclassical economics. The alternative theory uses indices that represent non-instrumental capabilities that constitute well-being.
2009_ECON_04661793.pdf	2009	Child health is an important quality in the life and development of a child. A mother serves as a primary caregiver for a child and a mother's decision about time allocation between the labor force and the household may be influential in child health. Data from the 1994 National Longitudinal Survey is used in this research to explore the influence of maternal employment on the number of illnesses requiring medical attention for children aged 12 to 72 months. Estimates from Ordinary Least Square regressions are obtained for four models. Estimated regression models indicate that maternal employment has no significant impact on the measure of child health. No difference in the number of illnesses requiring medical attention exists for children of mothers who work and children of mothers who do not work.
2009_ECON_04661794.pdf	2009	Lately, there has been a heated debate over the subsidy programs of the United States government towards its domestic cotton sector. Over the past two decades, the U.S. has grown into a dominating power in the international cotton trade despite having some of the highest costs of production for cotton. Due to an increasing amount of U.S. cotton subsidies over the years, American cotton producers have deflated the price of cotton by nearly 65% since 1990. This has resulted in welfare losses for cotton farmers in the developing world, market competitors who originally had a comparative advantage in cotton production regarding land endowments and cheap labor. Due to the resilience of the U.S. agricultural subsidy programs, despite the World Trade Organization's efforts to re-level the playing field in the cotton trade, some cotton farmers in the developing world have had to seek other avenues for income generation. This study is one of few to econometrically look at the effects U.S. cotton subsidies have on cotton producing households in the developing world, as well as the use of income diversification amongst some of these households to try and escape the poverty trap. Following the construction of a theoretical framework consisting of the agricultural household model, a 2SLS specification is employed on IFPRI's Pakistan Panel Survey. The data covers the years 1986-1990, and is used to analyze the impacts of U.S. cotton subsidies on 66 cotton producing households in Pakistan's Punjab province as well as income diversification as a mode of income smoothing. The regression results produce mixed findings.
2009_ECON_04661796.pdf	2009	This paper estimates the quantitative factors that lead to a growth in the US consumption of Chinese textiles after the global quota liberalization in 2005. The theoretical frameworks show that quotas should be thoroughly liberalized to benefit US consumers and the approach of free trade brings in national welfare gains to the US. The theories consider the following scenarios: (i) free trade; (ii) trade diversion of NAFTA; and (iii) function of market share. Utilizing panel data of HTS codes at the 6-digit levels from 1994 to 2007, the author employed three double log models with eight model specifications on each model to measure the determinants of the market shares of Chinese textiles in the US total textile imports. The empirical results suggest that US consumption of Chinese textiles rose from the ATC period to the Safeguard years majorly due to reductions in the prices of Chinese textiles. Aware of the centrality of the price determinants, the price measure of Mexican textiles under the protections of NAFTA and the income factor are also significant.
2009_ECON_04661797.pdf	2009	Is athletics a wage-enhancing activity? Utilizing the human capital and signaling theories, this study hypothesizes that athletics is a wage-enhancing activity. An econometric analysis of data from the National Longitudinal Education Study of 1988 provides significant empirical evidence to support this hypothesis, yet finds little evidence to support the hypothesis that the wage premium is different across various occupations. This study implements both the Ordinary Least Squares and Two-stage Least Squares regression techniques to estimate the impact of athletic participation on future wages. The study also finds evidence that the wage impacts of participation in individual and team sports are indistinguishable. This disaggregated examination of the impact of athletic participation on wage expands on the previous literature and provides a new area of the research for future studies to analyze.
2010_ECON_04661802.pdf	2010	An estimated 158 million children aged 5-14 are engaged in child labor which translates to one in six children in the world (Unicef, 2010). Millions of children are engaged in hazardous situations or conditions, such as working in mines, working with chemicals and pesticides in agriculture, or working with dangerous machinery. Children are toiling as domestic servants in homes, laboring behind the walls of workshops, hidden from view in plantations (Unicef, 2010). The reason behind child labor is poverty and lack of resources in the household, which leads to parents choosing not to invest in the education of their child. A potential factor influencing the decision to put child in a labor market is the birth-order of the child.  This paper presents a theoretical framework by looking at the decision of poor-households to invest in the education of their children or put them into the labor force. The human capital model will be used to explain the decision process of the household. It then uses data from India for the empirical analysis. The ordinal logistic regression model is used to test if birth-order effects have a negative impact on the activity of the child. The results in the paper confirm that birth-order effects can play a key role when a household is deciding the future activity of their child.
2010_ECON_04661803.pdf	2010	This research paper asks the question, how does a liberal arts degree versus a state university degree affect wages for post-graduates seeking employment in the labor market? After graduating and entrance into the labor force, state university graduates receive a higher starting salary due to specific human capital attainment. Over time, liberal arts college graduates receive a higher salary because of a more broad human capital acquired through formal education. Data was collected from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth starting in 1997 (NLSY97) pertaining to demographics and labor market experiences. Various factors are attributed to the changes in earnings such as gender, race, occupation, industry, citizenship, US geographical location of residents, and whether the individual attended a liberal arts college or state university. Results indicated that state university graduates received a higher starting wage, but as time progressed, the salary gap between liberal arts college graduates and state university graduates diminished.
2010_ECON_04661804.pdf	2010	This study analyzed the impact of tariffs on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Vertical FDI arise due to wage differential between the home and the host country. An increase in tariffs is likely to deter vertical FDI. Horizontal FDI is motivated by tariff- jumping. Higher tariffs set by governments of foreign countries are likely to increase trade costs and motivates a firm to undertake horizontal foreign production to avoid paying tariffs. Thus higher tariffs attract horizontal FDI. The total impact of tariffs on FDI is partially dependent on the relative importance of the two types FDI. We hypothesized tariffs are negatively related to FDI. We apply industrial data and empirically test the hypothesis. We found tariffs are positively related to FDI, although this result is not significant.
2010_ECON_04661805.pdf	2010	What theoretical and empirical validity exists, if any, for the hypothesis that international trade reduces the incidence of international conflict or similarly that it fosters peaceful international relations? This study argues that trade reduces conflict between states due to states' aversion to losing the utility gained from trade. States are better off trading than not trading at all, even if the ensuing interdependence makes them more vulnerable. States that trade gain higher utility than those that do not. The issue of breaking trade has devastating effects on states' utility. In a conflict scenario, when choosing between war or resolve, states are better off by choosing the latter option. Empirical results using a logistical random-effects model reveal that the relationship between interdependence and conflict are insignificant, opposite of many other findings in the literature. Furthermore, the results may be insignificant because of modeling weaknesses. Surprisingly, the literature fails to be a strong guide of regression models using fixed effects or random effects. The lack thereof suggests that future studies produce improved models that can more properly use random effects to test for this relationship. Perhaps this is due to the fact that the issue is predominantly studied by International Relations scholars, but not by economists. This paper serves as call to harmonize the two fields in regards to this issue as it concerns both economists and International Relations scholars alike.
2010_ECON_04661806.pdf	2010	This paper is devoted to examine the relationship between foreign direct investment (FDI) and wage inequality of skilled labor and unskilled labor in China. A theoretical framework that is developed based on the North-South trade model in Feenstra and Hanson (1997) suggests that, in the short run, foreign capital inflows in China will introduce new production methods that employ a higher ratio of skilled to unskilled labor in production activities. As a result, an aggregate labor demand is created because of such capital flows in the Chinese market. In particular, skilled labor will benefit more from FDI than unskilled labor in the short run, since a Leontief production function is used in the theory, where each type of production activities created by FDI employs a fixed ratio of skilled to unskilled labor. A panel setting consisting 25 Chinese provinces over the period from 1994 to 2003 is used to empirically test how FDI affects wage inequality. Results confirm that FDI increases the relative wage of skilled labor. In addition, test results also suggest there is significant evidence of state own enterprises (SOEs) and urban collectives (UCs) equalizing wages of skilled labor and unskilled labor. However, such an effect disappears in a fixed effects model with first differences.
2011_ECON_04661808.pdf	2011	Firms make decisions on a daily basis in order to determine the course of their daily operations. Their decisions demonstrate how effectively a firm can meet its bottom line given their constraints. One key element that significantly affects the nature of decision-making is how firms choose to define their bottom line. Most firms, more specifically, Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) tend to have a social and a financial bottom line. This can be explained by the fact the MFIs exist in order to provide financial services to the unbankable population around the world. Economists propose a standard theory of rationality that is based on root assumptions to explain decision-making with respect to utility. The alternative theory of rationality, which contradicts standard optimizing, is a theory based on pluralist satisficing. Accordingly, it supports the notion that MFIs ought to use sufficient means in order to attain enough of the multiple ends of an MFI. With multiple ends, we can establish the distinction between instrumental and non-instrumental values. With two types of values, the alternative theory of satisficing supports the existence of the plurality of values. Pluralism lends the ends to the possibility of incommensurability and indeterminacy, which also determines whether the ends of MFIs are competing.m By examining and analyzing the two theories of rationality, I will use considerations of the nature of an MFI to determine which theory better understands the rational decision-making of MFIs. One of the main considerations that have to be made is the extent to which the analysis of rationality of an MFI changes between the different theories of rationality.
2011_ECON_04661809.pdf	2011	While extensive economic research has been done on the traditional family consisting of a married different-sex couple and their children, new models of the family are now beginning to be explored. Same-sex and different-sex couples face different constraints that lead to dissimilar explicit/implicit cost benefit analysis for each type of family, which leads to same-sex and different-sex couples making different decisions. Four economic decisions are explored using an approach similar to Gary Becker's analysis of the family in Treatise on the Family: 1) the decision to commit, 2) how to define the relationship, 3) how to specialize within the household, and 4) the choice to have children. Models using data from the 2010 March Supplement of the U.S. Census support the conclusion that same-sex couples will have fewer children than different-sex couples based on disparate legal rights and biological constraints. Also, empirical testing shows that couple type plays a significant role in the decision to expand their family by having children.
2011_ECON_04661810.pdf	2011	The Porter Hypothesis has been extensively debated in recent decades due to an influx in environmental regulation. This study aims to explain the Porter Hypothesis from a theoretical perspective, and to analyze it using an empirical OLS approach. The data compiled is firm- specific and studies firms from across different industries. The study uses Tobin's Q as the dependent variable in order to measure firm performance. Using the environmental performance track as a proxy for innovation, the results of this study have found that firms that abide, enforce, or even surpass the needs of environmental regulation tend to increase their profits on the long run.
2011_ECON_04661816.pdf	2011	Plagued by unpredictable weather conditions and fluctuating markets, farming in developing countries is a risky occupation. While farmers save to smoothen consumption and take agro loans to reap higher farming income, they rarely have access to formal savings mechanism that provides interest. Having access to formal savings that provide interest while engaging in agro production backed by a micro loan would allow farming households to diversify their household economic portfolios to enjoy a higher level of consumption that not only will smoothen day to day financial constraints but also provide better contingencies against external shocks. This study examines the impact of having access to formal savings and loan programs on the level of consumption of farming households by considering savings and loan backed agro production as assets whose returns are maximized when held together in a portfolio.
2011_ECON_04661817.pdf	2011	This paper examines the effects of production costs due to digitalization on profit in the online music market.  This study empirically examines a sample of concert data, music descriptors, and music popularity charts that were completed in the period from January 2006 through December 2010.  The analysis is performed on subsamples stratified according to gross concert revenue.  The empirical results reveal basic evidence that the digitalization of production effects profit for firms in the online music market.  The basic findings support that music distributed through the internet, and internet popularity, do correlate to concert revenue.  However, this conclusion is based off of a relatively small sample set of years and without a total free market scope.  This study finds empirical evidence to support that internet popularity has a positive correlation to concert revenue.
2012_ECON_04661819.pdf	2012	In the biggest economic downturn since the Great Depression, the financial collapse of 2007 was a result of many economic factors. In particular, risky mortgage lending has been widely deemed the root cause of the financial crisis. In this research, borrower-lender and investor lender relationships are investigated using the Principal Agent Theory. It is hypothesized that a drastic increase in loan originations combined with deteriorating lending standards caused the eventual failure across the financial industry. Upon statistical analysis, this study provides evidence supporting the hypothesis based on data measured across one hundred metropolitan areas in 2010.
2012_ECON_04661820.pdf	2012	The purpose of this study is to examine the social welfare implications of international tax competition. Using the Harberger Model and the Laffer Curve, it was hypothesized that if the rate fall below a certain revenue maximizing point, then competition will have a negative effect on the welfare of the individual by either higher personal income tax rates or a decrease in public social spending. Using a modification of Jan K. Brueckner's reaction function, 29 of the OECD countries were tested using panel data dating from 1990 to 2007. The results suggest that tax competition has a significant impact on social welfare; however, the results also indicate that countries are still operating above the maximum revenue point. If tax competition continues at the same pace, then social welfare could negatively be affected.
2012_ECON_04661821.pdf	2012	This study investigates the effects direct to consumer advertisements (DTCA) has on price and demand in the pharmaceutical industry. Using a cross-section model  to test 27 advertised prescription drugs for the years 2009 and 2010 the variables are constructed from relevant literature, empirical findings, and laws of demand. The other variables being affected by price are the number of prescription drugs competing in a market, size of the market, number of years a firm has been out on the market, and  the intensity of price. The statistical analysis provides evidence that DTCA has an effect on advertised prescription drugs.
2012_ECON_04661822.pdf	2012	This paper investigates whether school quality has an impact on housing prices.  Also, it examines which measures of school quality have the largest impact on housing prices.  The study was conducted for the Toledo Metropolitan area for housing sales transactions for the year 2011.  Out of all the school quality variables tested, performance index proved to have the largest impact on housing prices.
2012_ECON_04661823.pdf	2012	The film market is a volatile industry in which the ability to predict success is highly valued. This paper hypothesizes that consumer choice of film is causally correlated with the characteristics of the film itself.  This is based on a hedonic theory that proposes consumers' have different relationships with the characteristics of film depending on the market in which it is viewed.  The regression models established in this study provide an analysis of consumer preferences towards characteristics in the domestic blockbuster, domestic art-house, and foreign film markets.  Specific results of the study indicate that domestic consumers value entertainment quality, artistic quality, availability of a film, and whether or not it is a sequel.  Within the independent film market, consumers prefer films with more artistic quality, however in the foreign markets entertainment quality and acting quality are appreciated.  These results support the use of hedonic theory as a means of valuing film and have several real-world implications.
2012_ECON_04661824.pdf	2012	The purpose of this paper is to explore the relationship between technology adoption and environmentally sustainable growth in developing countries.  Developed countries must first invent the technology they require to reduce their environmental impact, but developing countries have the opportunity to adopt technology that already exists.  It is therefore possible for developing countries to accelerate the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) process and begin reducing their environmental harm at earlier stages of development than was possible for countries that were on the technology frontier.  Using an adapted Solow Growth model it is shown that the growth path of developing countries will follow an EKC trajectory as the steady state of the economy is approached as long as environmentally sustainable technology is introduced into the economy, and, given the opportunity, countries would rather adopt the clean technology of developed countries than innovate their own dirty technology.  The implications are that developing countries can begin reducing their environmental impact before the preferential and compositional shifts, which are traditionally considered necessary by EKC theory, occur.  The empirical findings of this paper support this theory and provide evidence that it will become easier and easier for countries to achieve environmentally sustainable growth as long as technological progress in developed countries continues.
2012_ECON_04661825.pdf	2012	Neoclassical economic thought along with traditional social mindsets existing during the early twentieth century maintained a heteronormative familial structure that was formatted around the idea of a male breadwinner and a female housewife. The onset of the Great Depression market collapse challenged such ideals as men lost their upper hand within the system when their jobs were taken away. The difference between their work and that of their wives was the monetary aspect: market labor earned a wage, household labor did not. Such a separation gave men a valuable place within society leaving women as mere shadows cast within the confines of the home. The economic turmoil may have disrupted the business cycle, but traditional society strived to maintain the gender roles created by neoclassical thought. Tillie Olsen's Yonnondio, John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men and Meridel Le Sueur's The Girl are all depression novels depicting a different type of female struggle as the heteronormative familial structure is deconstructed during this era.
2012_ECON_04661826.pdf	2012	This paper uses neoclassical economic principles, game theory, and a wide variety of literature to examine whether altruistic giving can be considered rational. I also observe what preferences individuals have for giving as well as derive an overall demand curve for altruism. By conducting two different treatments of a dictator game in which the price of giving is altered, I found that 60 percent of College of Wooster students made choices consistent with the General Axiom of Revealed Preferences (GARP). For those that did display rational behavior, they are predicted to gain utility by maximizing personal wealth, creating equality, or maximizing social welfare. Further, I created a demand curve for altruism that suggests altruism is a very inelastic good.
2012_ECON_04661827.pdf	2012	The aim of this study is to investigate the extent to which individual risk preferences are contextually dependent. The theory deveoped in this paper extends the way traditional economists have thought about risk behavior to incorporate the way other social scientists have thought about risk behavior. Specifically, the hypothesis being tested in the paper can be stated as: Individuals behave differently towards risks when in a social atmosphere than when they are in isolation. This hypothesis was tested using an experimental design inspired from previous literature in the field. Using regression analysis it was found that there is no statistical significance that individuals behave differently towards risk when in a social atmosphere than when they are in isolation.
2012_ECON_04661828.pdf	2012	This I.S. addresses the University of Chicago's great influence in developing and spreading neoliberal economic doctrine following World War II.  The paper analyzes the Chicago School's role in implementing neoliberal theory into economic development policy, first in Latin America and, later, in the development of Structural Adjustment Policies.  Finally, my I.S. presents an empirical analysis of the effectiveness of Structural Adjustment Policies in promoting economic growth and development.
2012_ECON_04661829.pdf	2012	The hypothesis in this paper tests the impact of positive and negative incentives on worker productivity.  My hypothesis is that both incentive structures will have positive impacts on the productivity of the subjects in an experiment.  However, I believe that negative incentives will be more effective in increasing productivity because of the ideas of loss aversion.  In this paper I develop a model to explain the effort function of a worker with added variables to control for different types of frames for different people.  The theoretical framework in this paper builds upon the Principal-Agent problem and several of its solutions including Efficiency Wage Theory and Gift Exchange Theory.  Also I incorporate several ideas from Prospect Theory in order to explain the loss aversion philosophy.  An experimental methodology is utilized in this paper in order to better control for certain variables and explain specific data from my results.  This paper finds that threats and rewards negatively impact worker production which disagrees with most incentive theory especially the papers discussed in this paper
2012_ECON_04661830.pdf	2012	With the increasing number of water project failures on the African continent, global water concerns have shifted from pure access to sustainable access. Water is vital to rural communities because of household and agricultural needs. Rural communities are most apt to sustain resources through collaboration. But there needs to be greater depth in these collective social processes. Gender roles form the foundation for power dynamics, where men dominate. However, women are affected the most by water factors because they are the primary water procurers. Yet men dominate community level decision-making capacities. Therefore men control the resources. A disregard for women's assets and contributions leads to gaps in water resource management. This study integrates theories of collective action, social capital, gender roles and voice to illustrate the inclusive of gender can improve water resource management in rural communities.
2012_ECON_04661831.pdf	2012	Risk management has been a rising topic of study in the economic literature, as the number of firms using risk management strategies has been increasing in recent decades. This research studies corporate hedging using financial derivative in particular and tests its effects on firm value empirically, before and after the recent financial crisis. Supporting evidence for the positive impact of hedging was found in research but only after certain observations are removed, which reduces the power of the empirical tests.
2012_ECON_04661832.pdf	2012	Firms can select from several different orientations which provide a basic structure of how operations are carried out when dealing with the marketplace. When trying to determine a philosophy towards marketing efforts, firms must consider the interest of the organization itself, the customers, and society. In this paper, the conceptual hypothesis is that firms who recognize the importance of marketing and implement a marketing orientation approach are more likely to obtain higher profits. Briefly, a marketing orientation consists of a customer-oriented approach where the goal is to provide the right product for customers rather than finding the right customers for the product. A great deal of research is required in order to recognize a consumer want and then develop a product or service to satisfy that want. The tests that will be performed intend to provide analysis between profitability and the implementation of a marketing orientation for various firms.
2012_ECON_04661833.pdf	2012	This study investigates the theoretical and empirical sides of the government controlling the money supply and the influence it has on others. Based upon the fundamental form of the five-graph model and edgeworth box, as well as relevant literature, a theoretical model is constructed that establishes the main criteria the  government controls and aspects it merely has an influence on. The hypothesis being tested is the government control of the money supply to influence interest rates in order to minimize its own debt.
2012_ECON_04661834.pdf	2012	This paper uses a cross-sectional gravity equation to measure the impact of terrorism on international tourist flows to 8 European destination countries. The theoretical framework provides a basis for measurements within the gravity equation. The data is averaged between the years 1991-2009 to give a unique perspective on terrorism effects over during the rise of its transparency. The data combines both international and domestic tourism data to investigate the impact of all terrorism within destination countries. The findings indicate that both the amount of terrorist attacks and the number of fatalities due to terrorism negatively impact tourist flows to European destination countries.
2012_ECON_04661835.pdf	2012	Differing from for-profit businesses whose primary goal is gaining profits; nonprofit organizations possess a double-bottom line. Because of this characteristic, nonprofit organizations not only pursue financial sustainability, but also focus on achieving their social missions. Therefore, developing a measurement that can comprehensively reflect the nonprofit organizations' overall performance becomes a challenging undertaking. It's an undertaking that this study chooses to face head on by employing sustainability as a multidimensional measurement of a nonprofit organizations' performance. This study also seeks to find out how organizational structure affects the sustainability of nonprofit performing arts organizations as a whole. Based on the Profit-Maximizing Model, Cobb-Douglas Production Function, Agency Theory, Resource Dependency Theory, and TCC Group's sustainability formula, this research reveals three major findings according to the data from one hundred nonprofit symphony orchestras throughout the United States. First, there is a strong relationship between the organizational structure and the sustainability of nonprofit performing arts organizations. Second, among all the elements that contribute to a nonprofit's organizational structure, the board of directors' factors are most influential to the organization's sustainability. Third, in order to build an effective board, including board members with supportable capacities and skills and developing an appropriate size and structure of voting members can largely benefit a nonprofit performing arts organization with a higher level of sustainability.
2012_ECON_04661836.pdf	2012	As of 2009, the United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS reported that 68% of the global AIDS population was living in sub-Saharan Africa. While AIDS is a global epidemic it is concentrated in this geographic region and it affects their economies to a larger scale. This paper hypothesizes that, as there is an increase in AIDS prevalence rates in a given country there will be a decrease in growth. Researchers often use the Solow model to estimate the relationship between AIDS and growth. However, this model has certain disadvantages because it is an aggregated model of the economy and it does not distinguish between workers of varying productivity. Instead this paper will focus on the multi-sector Harris-Todaro model that places workers in three possible groups: the urban formal sector, the urban informal sector and the rural sector. The urban formal sector is home to the most productive workers and studies suggest that urban HIV prevalence rates tend to be higher than rural prevalence rates. Therefore, this paper proposes that the Harris-Todaro model should be more able to predict the impact of AIDS on growth because it distinguishes between workers, versus the Solow model that traditionally underestimates the impact of AIDS on growth. By regressing both the models, this paper hopes to show that the AIDS coefficient associated Harris-Todaro model is more negative than the coefficient associated with the Solow model. While the Solow regression results do find that AIDS has a negative statistically significant impact on growth, the coefficient comparison between the models does not find that the Harris-Todaro AIDS coefficient is more negative.
2012_ECON_04661837.pdf	2012	This paper aims to investigate and empirically test the notion that coastal countries grow faster in comparison to landlocked countries. The theory used in this paper is known as the Logistic Solow model, which is a modification of the commonly used standard Solow model. The theory shows that coastal countries are at an advantage when it comes to international trade with countries from other regions, which brings about a number of factors that facilitate growth. Unfortunately, the empirical tests conducted in this paper fail to find clear-cut evidence in support of the theory probably due to the use of less than perfect data in the analysis.
2012_ECON_04661838.pdf	2012	This study hypothesizes that being part of a monetary union lowers a nation's risk of defaulting on its loans and of going bankrupt. Both an insurance model and an open economy model show a risk reduction benefit for countries that have joined a monetary union. As a result, individual countries can loosen their fiscal policy without any major repercussions since their currency is backed by other member nations. In order to empirically test the hypothesis, a modified risk regression model was tested using monthly data pooled for 13 countries from the years 2000 until 2010 to show the effects monetary union participation, fiscal policy, investors' risk perception and the country's financial market condition have on the default risk. While this conceptual hypothesis holds true on a theoretical basis, it lacks statistical significance to make any inferences using the risk model created.
2012_ECON_04661839.pdf	2012	This research attempts to test the relationship between economic growth and educational sector foreign direct investment in the country of India. An augmented Cobb-Douglas production function is theorized to show the impact of FDI on economic growth through capital accumulation in the economy. This is then further dissected to show the impact of foreign investment into education, specifically within India. An endogenous growth model then follows illustrating how FDI leads to spillovers in the host country. These spillovers are directly applied to India and its education sector. It is hypothesized that FDI in education will lead to economic growth at a faster rate than other service sectors because of its beneficial spillovers. A number of previous studies are summarized to support both the theory and findings of this research. Finally, using a time-series data set ranging from 2006-2011 in quarterly sets, the theorized model is econometrically tested in a number of OLS regressions. When following the proposed theory and including domestic investment, the results provided insignificant evidence not allowing any conclusion to be drawn about FDI in the educational sector and its impact on economic growth. Further analysis, omitting domestic investment, provided clear evidence that FDI into education promotes tremendous growth within India.
2012_ECON_04661840.pdf	2012	This paper uses a two-stage decomposition modified Solow growth model to examine the impact of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) on Chinese aggregate output, which is represented by GDP per capita. A time-series regression and a panel data regression are applied to explore the findings. The results show significant positive relationship between FDI and GDP per capita, but insignificant findings for corruption.
2013_ECON_04661841.pdf	2013	This paper addresses the growing question of charter school efficiency and the production higher academic achievement than traditional public schools. While it is popular belief that charter schools are more efficient and should produce higher academic achievement than traditional public schools for students, it is not always true. Charter schools are public, non-tuition schools that operate separately from the traditional public school district located primarily in urban areas. Although theory supports the belief that charter schools are superior to traditional public schools, various literature show evidence that charter schools only have a small positive impact on academic achievement and are not more efficient. Academic achievement, in this study, is measured using fourth grade Ohio Assessment Tests from 2010-2011using OLS. This study suggests that while charter schools may have higher academic achievement, they are only more efficient with the teacher input in Ohio and peer effects have a greater impact on students' academic achievement.
2013_ECON_04661843.pdf	2013	Many school districts have recently made decisions to consolidate the number of schools within their respective district boundaries. This study examines the impact of school consolidation on student achievement. A sample of schools in the metropolitan Detroit area, an area in which consolidation has occurred, is examined. Three techniques are used to estimate the impacts at the individual school level, and the results are mixed but suggest that there is a negative impact or no impact at all from school consolidation.
2013_ECON_04661844.pdf	2013	The purpose of my research is to explore whether inequality between individuals effects their inclination to cheat when there is money to be earned. The goal of my research is to impose a level of wealth inequality between two subjects in a classroom situation. I will accomplish this by dividing the class in half, then flipping a coin to determine which group will have an initial monetary reward payout. I will then allow each subject to participate in a game of chance (die-under-cup paradigm) where answers are confidential. This game of chance will be twenty repeated die rolls where only one of the six sides of the die has any potential for payout. My hypothesis is that due to aversion of individuals to inequality in either direction, when a wealth inequality is imposed on participants it will lead them to cheat and those participants exposed to inequality to their disadvantage will cheat more.
2013_ECON_04661845.pdf	2013	The goal of this paper is to understand and estimate the degree to which the attractiveness of an applicant in a job application acts to offset the traditional human capital signal of GPA included on the applicants resume.  While many studies have explored the relationship between physical attractiveness and earnings within the labor market, the effect of physical attractiveness on hiring practices has been investigated less.  Using a model of signaling theory in conjunction with a theory of human capital, a theoretical model was constructed to evaluate the hypothesis that physical attractiveness acts as a signal that increases the perception of productivity among employers.  The measure of this effect was obtained through a survey of participants who were asked to act as if they were recruiting officers and screen a job application for the position of sales/office coordinator.  Each participant was presented with a job description and 1 of 16 resume-photograph combinations, varying by photograph attractiveness (very attractive, above average, below average, unattractive) and resume quality (measure by GPA 4.0, 3.35, 2.65, 2.0).  Participants were then asked to rate how good the application was, the likelihood of offering the applicant an interview, the likelihood of offering the applicant a job and the projected performance of the applicant.  Results indicated that physical attractiveness had no impact on productivity evaluations when resumes were low to average quality, but that attractiveness positively impacted participant's evaluations when resumes were of high quality.  The results of this paper provide partial evidence for influences of physical attractiveness within hiring practices.
2013_ECON_04661846.pdf	2013	This paper explores free agency and it's possible effect on player performance, holding all else constant. Free agency is analyzed theoretically and econometrically as a promotion tournament of sorts, where it works as a motivator that gives players the incentive to boost their performance, in order to be rewarded with an overpaid free agent contract. The purpose of this paper, in finding the effect of free agency on performance, is to find whether or not employers in MLB are strategically overpaying free agents in order to elicit greater performance from all players, rather than simply overestimating the worth of such overpaid players.
2013_ECON_04661851.pdf	2013	Natural resource abundance can have a negative impact on the growth of an economy. An increase in natural resources leads to a movement of labor from the other sectors of the economy to the natural resource sector. However, once the increase subsides, the labor cannot easily move from the resource sector. The cost of training and time make the movement back to the other sectors harder for the workers in the resource sector. This paper contributes to the literature by developing an economic model that explores the effects of an increase in the natural resource sector output on the overall economy. Labor is divided into skilled and unskilled labor. The model predicts that overall output suffers from a positive shock in the resource sector. Empirical analysis is performed using time series and Vector Autoregression models and data from Nigeria. Time series results reveal that natural resource abundance has had a negative impact on the growth of Nigeria. Results of the Vector Autoregression model show that a shock in the natural resource sector causes a decline in the real GDP in the first few time periods following the shock.
2013_ECON_04661856.pdf	2013	The focus of this paper is the inverse relationship between underwriter reputation and the underpricing of new issues. New issue underpricing results in money left on the table by issuing firms after an IPO. To avoid leaving money on the table, an issuing firm will hire an underwriter that can afford the risk of low underpricing, in exchange for paying a large spread to the underwriter. It is assumed that underwriters with a strong reputation can afford the risk of low underpricing more easily than underwriters with a weak reputation. In order to improve their reputation, or maintain a strong reputation, underwriters will consistently minimize the underpricing of new issues. In addition to the reputation of the underwriter, underwriter compensation, the age of the issuing firm, syndicate size, and proceeds of the initial sale of stock are compared to the extent of underpricing for each IPO.
2012_ECON_04665553.pdf	2012	Investing in the securities market exposes investors to both market risk and returns. Measurement of expected returns is relatively easy since there is a generally accepted method of calculation. However, there is no consensus on the best way of quantifying security risk. The classical method is to use variance; over time, a number of alternative methods have been developed. This paper contributes to literature by examining the explanatory power of the nine most cited alternative risk measures in a comprehensive model. Empirical analysis is performed using regression analysis. The main result of the paper is the observation of a direct relationship between risk and returns, as predicted by theory. The risk measures that display consistent, significant explanatory power are Sharpe's β, kurtosis, value at risk and market capitalization. Results of the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test for normality connfirm that 82% of the security returns did not come from a normal distribution. The paper also develops the critical line algorithm used for calculating optimal portfolios leading to the derivation of the efficicient frontier.
2007_ECON_04727326.pdf	2007	Foreign aid as a stimulant for economic reform in developing countries has been questioned in recent years due to the lack of increases in per capita income. However, during this time, the quality of the institutions receiving aid has been viewed as more important. It has been theoretically hypothesized that a country will grow economically if they have good institutions and receive sufficient funding through foreign aid. This paper empirically analyses both the aid and institutional quality variables individually on the growth of a developing country. Additionally, these variables have been analyzed as an interaction variable on the dependent variable. It has been concluded that aid will stimulate economic growth within a country, holding everything else constant. Additionally, institutional quality will have a positive effect on economic growth, ceteris paribus. However, it is not necessary for a country to have both of these things simultaneously. It has also been concluded that there is a nonlinear relationship between aid and growth. Therefore, aid is only beneficial up to a certain point. If too much aid is granted, it can have detrimental effects on the economic growth of a developing country.
2012_ECON_04856671.pdf	2012	This paper utilizes regression analysis and panel data of one hundred fifty-four developing countries. The empirical model is operationalized using a modified Nelson-Phelps theoretical framework, endogenous growth theory, and Dunning’s OLI theory. The constructed model tests the concepts that Foreign Direct Investment inflows from developed countries significantly impact Total Factor Productivity growth, that Total Factor Productivity impacts output growth, and that typical FDI determinants related to institutional quality and policy manipulation impact developed country FDI inflows. This paper finds that FDI from developed countries do not significantly impact TFP growth, but that TFP growth does impact output growth. The institutional quality and policy variables that are hypothesized to impact developed FDI inflows are found insignificant. This research finds that the difference between a measurement of the developed leader country’s productivity and that of a given following developing country potentially impacts output growth.
2012_ECON_04856725.pdf	2012	Ever since the concept of market efficiency was defined, individuals have been trying to find ways to measure, test, and show different levels of efficiency in markets. Efficient markets show a reflection in value from information. This study concerns itself with the market for securities. Specifically, it is concerned with the question, ‘What effect does the options market have on the efficiency of the underlying security?’ Given the above question, this study takes the position that the options market has a narrowing effect on the transactions cost of a security, which stands as a measure of market efficiency. As such, it is noted that the existence of the option allows dealers to better value the underlying security, and thus the market is more efficient. This study derives an option pricing model, follows it with a theoretical section, and then outlines the expected negative relationship between the options market and the efficiency of a market, due to the options market being an additional piece of relevant information regarding the security’s future performance. It then offers an empirical test of this hypothesis, the results of which do not support this hypothesis.
2014_ECON_05280001.pdf	2014	This study aims to understand the motives behind states’ selectivity regarding international intervention during times of crisis. Using a quantitative statistical analysis, the study tests four hypotheses to see if the likelihood of military intervention increases during instances of politicide or genocide when the state experiencing the crisis contains economic incentives such as oil or a valuable trading relationship. The study investigates the instances of military intervention for cases of politicide and genocide between years 1956-2006. The findings reveal that a state’s likelihood for providing military intervention decreases when the state that is in need of help has large oil reserves. The results also show that a strong import based relationship does increase the likelihood of the state being provided with military intervention; while export based trading relationships show no significant results.
2014_ECON_05306815.pdf	2014	Some countries pursue nuclear weapons, while others do not. What could be the reason behind this? In this project, I carry out a comparative case study between the countries of South Korea and Japan in order to understand why they did not go nuclear in the aftermath of the 2006 North Korean nuclear test. In fact, North Korea carried out two more nuclear tests since 2006 but neither South Korea nor Japan has shown evidence of going nuclear. The three primary theories of realism, liberalism, and constructivism are used to analyze the non-pursuit of nuclear weapons by both these countries, and form the essence of this qualitative analysis. I primarily rely upon Scott Sagan’s three models to study nuclear non-pursuit, but also make a few changes to some of the independent variables. The realist security guarantees with the United States seems to be the strongest indicator of non-pursuit in South Korea. In the case of Japan, I conclude that many liberal notions of non-pursuit such as public opinion have roots in a constructivist variable and that leads me to proclaim norms and identity as the strongest variables, though security guarantees are important in the case of Japan too.
2014_ECON_05309288.pdf	2014	Education is a vital component of any economy, which is why the large education quality disparities present in the United States are problematic. This paper seeks to employ theory, previous research, as well as empirical work to understand the causes of this disparity so that more effective policies may be implemented to correct it. The theoretical analysis herein determines the characteristics of education as a good, determining that it is both a partially-public good as well as a merit good. The rest of the theoretical analysis is examined within this framework. This empirical study seeks to determine the factors that influence education quality by using data from the 2009-2010 school year in California and the state’s Academic Performance Index (API) as a proxy for educational quality. It becomes evident that the majority of the factors that influence educational quality are student and parent characteristics and not those of the educational system itself. 
2014_ECON_05312380.pdf	2014	This paper empirically studies the relationship between human capital and economic growth. The role of institutions, advanced as an important determinant of growth, is also examined. Human capital is hypothesized to positively affect growth through the enhancement of worker capabilities. Political institutions are hypothesized to be an important factor in creating and maintaining an environment conducive to growth. Using panel data of East and Southeast Asian countries from 1985 to 2010 an empirical model is constructed to statistically test the effect of primary school enrollment on GDP per capita growth in addition to other important variables. The results indicate that growth is significantly fostered by primary school enrollment, investment, and GDP per capita. No statistically significant evidence of institutional variables, measuring democracy and corruption, being important for growth is found. These findings support the primary hypothesis that the development of human capital is key in stimulating growth.
2014_ECON_05336473.pdf	2014	"What are the impacts and legacies of the United States in Latin America? There is a long history and tumultuous relationship between the two. Especially in the Cold War period, there is much evidence of extensive U.S. intervention in the region. While much of this involvement has been documented by the press and activists, this paper strives to further our understanding as a society of the consequences of our actions and assistance. The question that this work posits is: what impacts did economic and military aid given by the United States have on Latin American regimes' human rights violations during the Cold War? Due to availability of data, the period to be studied is 1976-1996, which follows the end of the Cold War. Other variables studied for their possible impacts on human rights violations include democracy, involvement in international or civil wars, international law, economic development and growth, poverty, population and population growth. While the findings of the quantitative analysis show mixed significance of these variables, there are some clear, significant relationships that have important ramifications for our understanding of history and policy.
2014_ECON_05338053.pdf	2014	"Societies recovering from conflict often experience the destruction of infrastructure, GDP, livelihood stability, and political, social, and economic systems, which can cause extreme disruption to the economic wellbeing and self-sufficiency of households in the conflict-affected region. It is widely accepted that entrepreneurial activity is important to the growth and development of economies, yet there is a remarkable lack of research into the factors that promote small enterprise creation in a post-conflict context, where families have often experienced destruction of their income and earning ability.
2014_ECON_05363970.pdf	2014	This project addresses the research question: why do leaders of nationalist movements decide to pursue secession? The main hypothesis of this study is that the leadership style of the head of the nationalist movement determines whether or not he or she decides to pursue secession.  A review of the relevant literature identifies that this question has not been adequately studied. In an effort to address this question, leadership decision-making literature, in particular leadership trait analysis, is applied to nationalist leaders. Three leadership styles were developed: the modified expansionist style where the leader will decide to pursue secession no matter what the circumstance; the modified opportunist style where the leader will decide to pursue secession if the majority of the nation wants to secede; and the accordant style where the leader will decide to not pursue secession without exception. These styles are tested by coding interview responses for three nationalist movement leaders: Alex Salmond of Scotland, Artur Mas of Catalonia, and Kris Peeters of Flanders. After analyzing the data of the personality trait scores, the findings are inconclusive because of methodological difficulties and assumptions that proved to be incorrect. Changes need to be made and further experiments should be conducted to come to conclusive results; however, this study does add information to scholars’ knowledge on this topic. 
2014_ECON_05370727.pdf	2014	Due to the increasing number of women in the labor force, opportunity costs associated with labor force participation are becoming an important factor in fertility decisions. Further, these decisions are assumed to be dynamic as the opportunity costs change as a woman progresses through her career. A Bayesian statistical model , which allows the distribution of the likelihood of having children to be updated as information is gathered, lends itself to the dynamicity of the decision-making process. A generalized model for fertility decisions in terms of labor force participation is created. I also discuss potentials for implementation and furthering the model.
2014_ECON_05371456.pdf	2014	Charles de Gaulle dominates the history of 20th Century France. He led his country’s resistance to Nazi Germany, created and guided the institutions of the Fifth Republic, and shaped the structure of modern-day France. On the world stage, however, de Gaulle struggled to assert France’s independence and grandeur, the two driving forces of his foreign policy. This independent study examines three key moments in French foreign relations after de Gaulle became President of the newly created Fifth Republic in 1959. For de Gaulle, ideology was more important than advancing traditional economic, political, and military interests. While these interests factored into de Gaulle’s decision making process, they were always subordinate to his desire to see France regain its place as an independent, influential, and grand power in the world stage. This motivation can be seen in de Gaulle’s relations with the European Community, where he risked the failure of the entire organization to maintain France’s privileged place in Europe. De Gaulle’s prioritization of ideology is also apparent in his pursuit of nuclear weapons, which provided France with military “elite” status, but no real national security benefit. De Gaulle’s decision to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s military structure was also driven by his determination to assert France’s independence in foreign policy, although he got nothing but ire in return.
2014_ECON_05372461.pdf	2014	"The “Kurdish Question” is a perceived security threat that continues to be faced by states that contain the Kurds, the largest ethnic transnational minority in the Middle East. The ebb and flows of rising Kurdish nationalism and the potential for border instability frequently causes states to heavily reprimand Kurdish ambitions, often causing violent Kurdish reactionary events. This study hopes to understand what specific state discriminatory policies towards the Kurds cause the most violent Kurdish reaction. Using a comparative case study of Turkey, Iraq and Syria, the study compares subgroups of discriminatory state policies (economic, political, and cultural) to determine the documented level of violence of the correlated Kurdish reaction. "
2014_ECON_05372477.pdf	2014	Does the direct targeting of civilians and non-combatants have any affect on the likelihood of success in civil war? While this tactic, known as categorical terrorism, constitutes severe war crimes, it is nonetheless employed by armed non-state actors in countless conflicts around the world. Using a series of eight models, this study seeks to understand the impact, if any, categorical terrorism has on the likelihood of success for armed non-state actors. Using a large-N analysis of every civil war that has taken place between 1970 and 2003, this study seeks to accomplish two objectives: to understand how categorical terrorism influences civil war outcomes and to provide information that will hopefully lead to proactive policy measures aimed at protecting civilians and non-combatants.
2014_ECON_05372526.pdf	2014	This paper theoretically and empirically evaluates the role of trust in business organizations by focusing on trustworthiness as it relates to the broader subject of compensation structure. To postulate the hiring of a trustworthy individual as a potential third solution to combat the commitment of moral hazard in the principal-fiduciary relationship, this study utilizes a two-stage operational model to assess the role that individual preference has on executive shirking levels. An OLS modeling technique is used to estimate the regression functions and coefficients for a cross-sectional sample of 110 manufacturing firms. Ultimately finding the trust model to be insignificant, results give little evidence to support the hypothesis that the characteristics of trustworthy individuals have any explanatory power over the difference between actual and predicted levels of incentive pay. Attributing this insignificance largely to the omission of variables due to lack of available data on executive biographical information, this study cautiously offers the hesitant finding that investment in social capital can potentially be utilized to hire an inherently trustworthy executive. As a secondary finding, the CEOs tenure with the company was found to be a significant determinant of the proportion of incentive pay, suggesting that greater focus should be placed on individual characteristics when setting executive compensation structure. In all, this study highlights the need for a more complete biographical database so further research can continue with a larger sample size and more efficient operational measures of trust.
2014_ECON_05372725.pdf	2014	This research brings China's economic growth and growth of Christianity in post-Reform urban China into focus, at the very same time. Using interdisciplinary approach and employing research methods from both disciplines, this research explains the ways rapid economic growth has led to dramatic social transformation in urban China after the 1980s, which has resulted in significant shifts in the Chinese cultural and religious landscapes. Through conducting empirical testing of the 2007 Spiritual Life Study of Chinese Residents household survey, the research found out that family as a close-knit, culturally significant social network had the strongest influence on urban Chinese' decision-making of religious affiliation. Income alone did not have significant enough an impact on such decision. Chinese communist government was still perceived as a negative influence on religious affiliation with Christianity.
2014_ECON_05372885.pdf	2014	This thesis hypothesizes that the state of Ohio education finance system does not provide sufficient education grant money to local school districts to fill the gap between expenditure need and local revenue-raising capacity. Theories of fiscal capacity and intergovernmental grants explain how miscalculation of education costs causes the state government to underfund public schools. In order to test the hypothesis empirically, a regression model is tested using panel data for 606 Ohio public school districts for the years 2010, 2011, and 2012. This model shows the effects of revenue-raising capacity, expenditure need, and other control variables on the amount of grant money distributed to each district by the state government. The results from the regression analysis provide evidence supporting the hypothesis of this thesis, and have significant policy implications for the Ohio education system.
2014_ECON_05373258.pdf	2014	"Research on income inequality in the United States, generally, neglects the subject’s inherent philosophical content because of economics’ propensity to avoid evaluative judgments. In result, John Rawls’s theory of justice, a better conception of justice than those often presumed by economists, is disregarded in policy conversations about income inequality. This thesis has two objectives: 1) to demonstrate that economics fails to acknowledge the link between theories of distributive justice and income inequality, and in consequence, economists are settling for a weaker theory of justice. 2) To examine what Rawls’s theory of justice implies for the United States’ current income distribution.I achieve the first objective in two parts. In Part One I illustrate the link between distributive justice, politics, and income inequality by examining income inequality’s causes, impacts, and current and historical statistics. In Part Two, I present three theories of justice – utilitarianism, Robert Nozick’s libertarianism, and John Rawls’s liberalism. I achieve my second objective in Part Three, where I examine what Rawls’s theory implies for income inequality in the United States. I find that Rawls’s principles of justice, specifically the difference principle, calls for policy that equalizes opportunity."
2014_ECON_05374122.pdf	2014	The impact of foreign graduate students on the level of innovation in the United States is an important topic. This paper contributes to the literature by developing an economic model that explores the effects of foreign graduate students and postdoctorates on the national innovation capacity of the US. The economic model draws from Solow and Romer and the results indicate that postdoctorates have a significant and positive impact on innovation capacity of the US. Ceteris paribus, a 1% increase in foreign postdoctorates per labor force leads to an 11.85% increase in patent grants, three years after the inputs after employed. Similarly, a 1% increase in foreign postdoctorates per labor force increases patent grants by 16.00%, five years after the inputs are employed. The results from foreign graduate students show a significant but negative relationship with innovation activity. Upon conclusion, foreign postdoctorates play an important role in expanding US national innovation capacity.
2014_ECON_05375376.pdf	2014	Oil is an important production resource in China’s economic growth. China has been a net-oil import country since 1993. Relying on oil imports brings risks to China’s economic growth and national security. This paper seeks to apply theory, previous literature and empirical methods to examine oil import risks’ influences on China’s economic growth. Using the growth model and data from 1986 to 2012, the results indicate that risk factors do not have direct impacts on China’s economic growth. However, some risk factors have significant impacts on China’s total petroleum consumption; and petroleum consumption has positive influences on economic growth. In other words, risk factors have indirect impacts on China’s economic growth through petroleum consumption. It is important for China to maintain oil imports and China is adopting more strategies to reduce oil import risks.
2014_ECON_05375385.pdf	2014	While there are many determinants as to what draws foreign direct investment (FDI) to developing countries such as macroeconomic conditions and political determinants, the focus here will be on judicial institutions. Depending on the quality of courts within developing countries, academic research shows that there exists variation in the amount of FDI received. Stable judicial institutions and legalism consist of adherence to rule of law, rational-legal enforcement, and efficient liberal courts. Data from the World Governance Indicator (WGI) that entails six dimensions of a quality judicial system is used to measure the judicial strength of the case study countries of interest: Chile, Panama, and Nicaragua. The data collected, which measured judicial strength is also accompanied by empirical research that focuses on outside companies and investor relationship in particular industries within the case study countries. The research findings uphold that judicial institutions and legalism impact FDI variation in developing countries.  
2014_ECON_05376166.pdf	2014	Although women in developing countries play a significant role in the agricultural sector, they are faced with economic, social, and cultural constraints that limit their access to agricultural productive resources. This study examines the impact of agricultural technology and human capital on gender inequality. The theory used in this paper is the human capital augmented Solow model, which is a modification of the standard Solow growth model. The model predicts that, due to the gender bias against women, agricultural technology and human capital will not reduce gender inequality in developing economies. The empirical results are mixed but suggest that agricultural technology has no impact on gender inequality, while female education, a measure of human capital, has no impact or negatively impacts gender inequality.
2014_ECON_05378324.pdf	2014	The conflict between exclusivity and universalism is a consistent theme in international relations. In modern history this conflict is prominent in the often-hostile relationship between internationalism and state self-interest, easily seen in the founding of the United Nations (UN) in 1945. Though its importance is sometimes downplayed, the UN had tremendous potential, and history might have taken intriguing routes if the organization had been organized along different lines. One could argue that the UN took the path it did due to its ideological influences. The UN Charter, emblematic of the new organization, is the ideal document to observe these influences. This study examines three ideological forces and their influence on the Charter: Realism, characterized by the self-interest of states in international relations; World Federalism, which advocated a democratic-republican world federal government; and Dissident Marxism, promulgated by members of the anti-Stalinist left who wanted to implement their version of socialism globally. I first examine the theoretical literature of each of these schools of thought, then codify their principles in my methodology section. Then, I examine the extent to which each set of principles overlap with the Charter thus indicating (though not explicitly establishing) the degree to which they were able to influence that system. The final chapter examines my findings and potential structures of further research. I come to the conclusion that realism’s influence is the largest influence on the Charter, with World Federalism having a degree of influence, and Dissident Marxism having the smallest influence. The ideology with the strongest state power behind it, realism had the most influence, and the ideology with essentially no state power, Dissident Marxism, had the least influence. This suggests a positive correlation between state power and influence on documents of international affairs as well as a limit to the strength of ideas and ideology.
2014_ECON_05383671.pdf	2014	This study examines the impact of socio-cultural factors on the bargaining power of women and on their participation in non-household production in Tanzania. Based on economic theory, we hypothesize that the existence of socio-cultural factors decreases the bargaining power of women and limits their participation in non-household production. Using the 2006 Tanzania Integrated Labor Force Survey, we empirically test this hypothesis by running robust regressions, which uses time spent on the main activity as the dependent variable. Our results indicate that when husbands share household responsibilities with their wives, women who primarily engage in unpaid household activities devote less time on housework per week, while the women in agriculture and self- employment devote more time towards their respective activities.
1995_ECON_05509416.pdf	1995	This thesis explores the factors that have contributed to the emergence of a fundamentalist Islamic movement in Turkey and the direction this movement is currently moving towards. Two theories of social change that specifically focus on fundamentalist movements in Islamic countries were used. In order to provide substance for these theories the socio-political and economic history of the Turkey was explainedin the literature review section. The implications of the theories were tested by analyzing three sources: a Piar-Gallup survey that shows the attitude of the fundamentalist party's (RP) voters about Tukey's current situation, the economic agenda of the RP, and a speech given by the leader of the RP at their annual congress. These sources confirmed that the traces of the Islamic background of Turkey and the socio-political and economic situations it went through after the republic was founded make it inevitable for an Islamic revivalism to emerge. The analysis of the data also showed that the RP is making good use of the current socio-political and economic realities of Turkey and consequently increasing its support. The study, as a whole, suggests that understanding and tolderance are the key virtues to have in resolving the conflict created between the Islamic fundamentalists and liberals in Turkey.
2014_ECON_05773491.pdf	2014	"This study looks into why employers offer benefits as a general component of employee compensation, and then looks specifically at retirement plans as an employee benefit that can be used by employers as a tool to attract and retain specific employees. It looks into employee and employer factors of retirement plans and seeks to determine which of these general factors are more important in an employee’s participation in an employer sponsored retirement plan. Careful analysis of cross-sectional participant level data leads to the conclusion that both employer and employee factors are important in retirement plan participation. While the results of this analysis did not always coincide with the anticipated results, the findings were significant and point to some surprising results."
2014_ECON_06416269.pdf	2014	"This paper focuses on an investigation of public policy aimed at increasing social welfare via resource redistribution, focusing on productive public spending such as investments in health and education. The study applies the theories of the Edgeworth Box model and the Social welfare function in understanding the dynamics between allocations, inequality and the level of welfare within society. These basic models are then expanded by analyzing the impact of augmenting the production possibility frontier on both the ultimate outcome in the Edgeworth box and the on the level of welfare in society. We hypothesize that productive public spending, inclusive of both investments in health and education, will impact the outcome represented in the Edgeworth box in such a way that it reduces inequality and impacts the production frontier such that it increases the level of output that the economy produces. A review of literature is included, after which a model specification is designed to empirically test the relationships described in the hypothesis. The results show that there is statistical evidence to suggest that health spending has an enhancing effect on output, but that it also increases inequality. On the other hand, education spending has a reductive effect on inequality but it also decreases economic output. Finally, we discuss the limitations of this study and make recommendations for future research.
2015_ECON_06766250.pdf	2015	"As a result of colonialism and foreign occupation of Africa, a new group of actors emerged in the 20th century: the African elite.  These actors, emerging in the final days of colonialism, are prominent across the continent.  Understanding the factors that created this group is important to understand how they act in today’s global society. By comparing the domestic colonial experiences in Senegal and Kenya, this study seeks to determine the connection between colonial native education policies and the formation of the local elite, which goes hand in hand with the creation of their political consciousness.  This thesis uses comparative case studies to see if this phenomenon is unique, or can be seen as a greater African trend.  The French system valued complete assimilation of the Africans to French culture, while the British tried to apply British culture and influence to the African-specific cultures in their colonies. While the French intended to have an elite group of Africans to run the lower levels of the bureaucracy, the British sought to prevent an elite out of fear that they would threaten the stability of the colony.  Regardless of the differences between colonial powers, it is evident that whether the French were seeking to assimilate their subjects, or the British to associate theirs, education was the most powerful tool to do so.  With more education came a greater grasp of the racism, class distinctions, and exploitation—all of which were put in place to ensure the Africans remained at the lowest social, political and economic tier of the colony.  I find that native education was instrumental in the creation of a small group of influential politically conscious Africans to oppose colonial control.  These men would prove to be important leaders during colonial times to test the limits of colonial control, and to advocate for the right of an independent Africa.  These are the same men who would gain control after independence and influence the new wave of an African elite.
2015_ECON_06825226.pdf	2015	This study investigates the relationship between insurgency strategy, counterinsurgency response, and the outcome of the counterinsurgency operation. Despite the presence of irregular warfare throughout history, governments and militaries continue to possess a strong distaste for this style of conflict. Rather, militaries prefer to fight conventional wars, which follow protocol and rules of engagement. As a result, insurgencies and COIN strategies are severely understudied, leaving a gap in the literature. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, coupled with the publication of the U.S. Field Manual 3-24, have revitalized the study of counterinsurgency once more. The research conducted in this study analyzes what COIN strategy is most successful, depending on the type of insurgency movement? Four insurgency strategies are studied: conspiratorial approach, urban warfare, military-focus approach, and protracted popular warfare. Likewise, there are four counterinsurgency strategies studied: hearts-and-minds, stability operations, search and destroy, and occupation. A mixed method of statistical analysis and four descriptive case studies are employed to answer this research question. In conclusion, a surprising disconnect was discovered between COIN literature and policy, resulting in major policy implications.
2015_ECON_06837945.pdf	2015	The establishment of peace in post-genocidal states is vital, as the experience of extreme division and violence can scar a population, contributing to violence and inequality moving forward. Existing literature on post-conflict transition and governance argues that two main systems are typically used: consociationalism and assimilationism. While consociationalism argues for heterogeneity in the state and assimilationism for homogeneity, both of these systems use the institutionalization of identity as a step in post-conflict recovery, through such means as proscribing or privileging particular identities. This study posits that this is inherently flawed, as attempts to institutionalize identity ignore its contextually fluid or fixed nature. In using Bosnia-Herzegovina and Rwanda as case studies for the hypotheses of consociationalism and assimilationsim, respectively, this research finds that such institutionalization not only fails to support development towards sustainable peace, but actually inhibits it. This supports the alternative hypothesis proposed by this study, that post-conflict recovery and reconciliation is dependent on 'thick' understandings of local contexts and the honoring of diversity over fixed categorization.
2015_ECON_06876431.pdf	2015	This research effort examines the relationship between the Value-added tax and the distribution of social welfare. The main hypothesis of this effort argues that implementation of and reliance on a Value-added tax will lead to more equitable distributions of social welfare. Relevant theories of public finance and literature reviews of peer-edited articles are provided as support for the empirical work performed to test this hypothesis. Using a panel of 34 OECD member states over the period between 1995 and 2010, fixed-effects and random-effects regression models are run. The results of the fixed-effects model do not conform to the hypothesis while the results of the random-effects model do. While the results conflict, the findings do suggest that the propensity to spend government revenue on social policy areas is crucial for a more equitable distribution of social welfare. It is therefore implied that the Value-added tax is an effective tool to raise the necessary funds for this purpose but such a tool will lead to beneficial welfare effects only if its revenues are spent in a socially optimal way.
2015_ECON_06876482.pdf	2015	"This Independent Study Thesis answers two main questions and then combines those answers to form a cohesive policy recommendation for intervention into genocide. The first question is whether intervention into genocide can be successful. And the second is whether intervention can be ethical. The question of success is answered by a comparative case study on the interventions into East Timor, Kosovo, and Darfur. The ethical question is answered through an evaluation of rule-utilitarianism as well as cosmopolitan arguments. The thesis is divided into seven chapters.The first chapter is the literature review. It explains how to define genocide and then moves on to evaluate the state of the existing literature on the subject. The second chapter is the theory chapter and evaluates overarching international relations theories; as well as ethical theories and theories of the state. The third chapter is the methodology and lays out the form of the case study. The fourth, fifth, and sixth chapters are the case analyses themselves, and deal with East Timor, Kosovo, and Darfur respectively. The seventh chapter answers the ethical question. It confronts whether states can have moral obligations, and then formulates an obligation to assist.The results suggest three important things. There can be successful intervention into genocide. There can be ethical intervention into genocide. And, most importantly, that these two are not mutually exclusive. I then conclude with a policy recommendation for ethical and successful intervention into genocide."
2015_ECON_06878969.pdf	2015	The focus of this paper is to evaluate the impact that different degrees of involvement in the Wooster community have on the individual contribution decision of various Wooster alumni who are asked to make a contribution to the Wooster Fund. The contribution decision is a resource allocation dilemma in which an individual has to determine how much of his or her budget constraint to spend on competing goods in order to maximize his or her utility. In the case of Wooster alumni, the competing goods are goods that satisfy consumption preferences and goods that satisfy donation preferences. The assumption of this paper is that Wooster Alumni who belonged to organizations of various types while they attended Wooster can be predicted to donate to the Wooster Fund at a greater level than alumni who did not participate in organized collectives, because of the mission engagement-enhancing effect that group membership has on the contribution decision function. A data set of Wooster alumni contribution levels and descriptive statistics is analyzed econometrically in order to provide support for this hypothesis. Group membership is determined by the results of the analysis to be an important variable in the contribution decision, at least in this case study of Wooster Alumni contribution.
2015_ECON_06879339.pdf	2015	My independent study attempts to answer the research question: Given shifting dynamics in Al-Qaeda (AQ) in the aftermath of Osama bin Laden’s death, how has the relationship between AQ Central and Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) changed? After the assassination of Osama bin Laden and rise of ISIS some have discounted AQ as an imminent threat. Continued attacks against US interests in the Arabian Peninsula by AQAP reveal that Al-Qaeda’s global network is not to be underestimated and continues to thrive. Therefore, my project has important counterterrorism implications and the potential to enhance current conceptions of how Al-Qaeda Central relates to its affiliates. The literature provides “assessments” of affiliates or addresses dynamics of global terror networks. A major gap in the literature exists due to a lack of theoretical work. Adapting Daniel Byman’s model for the state sponsorship of terrorism, I attempt to fill this gap. Using a pre/post-test comparative case study design, I employ process tracing to look for variation in control or coordination in the relationship. Specifically I look at the extent that AQ Central is involved in various AQAP activities before and after Osama bin Laden’s assassination in 2011.
2015_ECON_06880082.pdf	2015	This research adds to the literature by applying a new model to the analysis of the interactions between school districts and teachers’ union. By utilizing an ultimatum game framework, a theoretical model of how the negotiation process between school districts and teachers’ unions influences the allocation of educational resources is created. This theoretical construct is then tested with an empirical model that tests the influence of union power upon the allocation of educational resources and the influence of the allocations of school resources upon educational attainment. This paper finds that although teachers’ unions do have an influence upon the allocation of school resources, those allocations of school resources do not have significant influence over educational attainment. As a result, this paper finds evidence that union power does not influence educational attainment but instead that independent variables outside the control of either party, school districts or teachers’ unions, are the major factors in determining levels of educational attainment.
2015_ECON_06880344.pdf	2015	This paper tests the impact in which terrorism has upon economic growth. There is some discrepancy as to how large the impact of terrorism is on economies. In order to understand this relationship we run traditional growth regressions while adding terrorism variables in order to assess the impact. The sample which we use contains both terrorism and GDP data from 30 different countries from the years 1968 through 2007. We run four separate models each of which allow us to examine terrorisms effects in different ways. The first regression that is ran is a panel regression that uses GDP per capita growth as the independent variable. The second uses the log difference of GDP per capita in an attempt to control for variance. The third regression is a cross-sectional regression aimed at understanding terrorisms effects on long run GDP per capita growth. Our fourth and final model is an attempt to recreate the panel regression ran by Bloomberg, Hess and Orphanides. The results that we obtained from our regressions were inconclusive on the effect which terrorism has on economic growth.
2015_ECON_06880417.pdf	2015	External state intervention is a complex phenomenon which crosses the disciplinary line between economics and political science. When modeling the decision to intervene, many investigations fail to consider the role of economic interests. We hypothesize that economic interests play a role in the decision to intervene. Our paper applies realist and liberal international relations theories to a rational choice framework. From these theories, we gather that security, economic, and political interest matter in the decision making process. We use a logit model to empirically test our theoretical model and fail to find significant evidence to support our hypothesis. However, we provide evidence that using all states other than the conflict state as potential interveners, ex-ante intervention, as the unit of analysis allows for a more accurate model of the decision making process
2015_ECON_06880445.pdf	2015	Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are two government-sponsored enterprises that received significant attention for their role in the 2007 mortgage crisis. These agencies must fulfill goals laid out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development that are intended to increase homeownership among borrowers who are traditionally underserved by the mortgage market. In this paper I test the hypothesis that affordable housing goals increase the availability of credit to targeted borrowers. These borrowers would usually not receive a mortgage because they are not as profitable as less risky borrowers. To test the impact of affordable housing goals I develop a theoretical model that explains the contributing factors in the decision to lend and how GSE activity impacts this decision. To determine the impact of affordable housing goals on the lending decision a regression model is conceptualized and estimated using tract level aggregate data. My findings show signs that GSE purchases reduce the denial rate in low-income tracts targeted by affordable housing goals. The result of this is greater access to credit for targeted borrowers.
2015_ECON_06880568.pdf	2015	In the following paper, the inter-industry differences in the effect of advertising on the performance of the firm will be analyzed. While much literature has contributed to advertising with other variables such as profitability and concentration, few have studied how this effect may differ between firms in consumer goods industries and firms in producer goods industries. The hypothesis that is tested is that if advertising has a positive and significant relationship with firm performance, then this effect will be stronger for firms in consumer goods industries. A two-stage least squares regression is run to test the hypothesis, but the results turn up insignificant, resulting in not enough sufficient evidence to reject the null hypothesis of no difference between the industries.
2015_ECON_06880807.pdf	2015	"In this study, I will be analyzing the factors that affected nuclear strategy during the Obama administration. At the beginning of his term, President Obama, through rhetoric and action, put the reduction of the role of nuclear weapons as a main goal of his administration. This was asserted through directives such as his 2009 “Remarks in Prague” speech and the 2010 Nuclear Posture Review. However, starting in 2014, his policy shifted. As seen in the 2014 Quadrennial Defense Review, for example, this new strategy focused on modernizing nuclear weapons and the importance of these weapons as a deterrence factor. In my study, I will be using a neoclassical realist framework in order to better understand this policy shift. This viewpoint is the most useful because it accounts for systemic level factors, such as the balance of power, but also takes into account other factors, such as domestic politics and elite perceptions. Additionally, since neoclassical realism is best used for explaining security issues and foreign policy decision-making, this case will be a strong test of the descriptive, explanatory, and predictive powers of the neoclassical realist theory.
2015_ECON_06881433.pdf	2015	This study examines the impact that Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) has had on economic growth in economies within the Southern African Development Committee (SADC) in the 21st century. Based on the Solow model, the study hypothesizes that, by acting as a conduit for the transfer of technology from technologically advanced countries to developing countries, FDI has accelerated economic growth in the SADC region. Using panel data from the World Bank and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) that covered from 2000-2012, results of the study show that FDI has not had significant influence on economic growth in the SADC region. The study attributes these results to poor human capital stock, which emanates from SADC member states’ poor performance in the education sector.
2015_ECON_06883720.pdf	2015	Th research studies the relationship of trade and wage inequality in upper-middle-income countries. Specifically, the research questions how trade between upper-middle-income countries and both developed and lower-income countries affect the wage inequality. We use Heckscher-Ohlin model and Stolper-Samuelson theorems to study the relationship between trade and factor prices. We use panel data models on fifteen countries from 1975-1966 and the results suggest that we do not have the same results as explained by Heckscher-Ohlin-Samuelson theorem. 
2015_ECON_06885006.pdf	2015	"In this paper, I adopt the framework of the political business cycle to derive a model of politician decision making with regard to international trade policy.  To test my model, I estimate a probit regression using a unique data set of 18 U.S. Senate votes on trade liberalization from 1993-2011.  My regression measures the impact of impending reelection on an incumbent politician’s trade policy choice, controlling for the capital-labor distribution and employment make-up of the politician’s constituency, as well as the politician's personal ideology.  I find empirical support for my hypothesis that, all else equal, a politician within two years of an election is less likely to vote in favor of trade liberalization. 
2015_ECON_06885459.pdf	2015	Digital technologies such as the mobile phone, the Internet, and personal computers gained widespread adoption over the past 20 year especially in post-industrial societies gearing up towards production in a knowledge-based economy. However, how have individuals use such advances in technology to control their time better, and increase the value of their time? That is the central question of this Independent Study. With temporal welfare providing a grounding concept as to why societies should care about how individuals allocate their limited resource of time, the paper also questions the ideological backdrop of capitalism, globalization, and neoliberalization that have allowed the rise of digital technologies in our lives. Through understanding the choices individuals make using digital technologies through a neo-classical economic framework, a Marxist economic framework, and a sociological Habitus framework, this paper is armed to tease out the complications of digital technologies as a subject matter. Finally, through the use of the U.K. Workplace Employee Survey data, an econometric analysis was performed to plot the changes in the attitudinal characteristics of workers across three technological transitions. This paper found that workers in the U.K. are working less hours in 2011 than in 1998, knowledge workers work fewer hours than non-knowledge workers. Also, digital technologies can account for some of the variance of various attitudinal feelings about work pace and control over work performed across the three technological transitions, but there are larger factors at play that have aligned workers overall feelings towards the pace of work and control over work done prior to the digital age.
2015_ECON_06886194.pdf	2015	"Keysar et al. (2012) and A. Costa et al. (2014) found that thinking in a foreign language could help the speakers to reduce the framing effect and select risky prospects in a more consistent manner. In order to understand the relationships between the risk preferences, consistency in decision-making and language used, an experiment was carried out in form of online surveys. The surveys were distributed to the Vietnamese, Chinese and French bilinguals as well as a group of English natives through The College of Wooster’s e-mail, social media and Amazon M-Turk. Participants (N = 177) were assigned to use either their mother tongue or foreign language to answered either the gain-framed or loss-framed Asian Disease problem. All participants also completed the Holt-Laury’s Ten-Paired-Lottery problem. The data were analyzed by SPSS two-variable Chi-Square and logit regression. The results did not find consistent evidence supporting the effect of foreign-language on the framing effect and risk preferences over all as hypothesized. However, the foreign languages with high linguistic distance were likely to induce framing-effect-reduction and make the decisions more consistent."
2016_ECON_08289110.pdf	2016	"This independent study is divided into two separate works. The first focuses on the importance of a small retail business’s location when determining where to site its operations. Through an economic utility framework, academic research identifies ten neighborhood amenities that indicate and support a physical location’s ability to attract and retain residents; individuals who may ultimately define the business’s target market population and support the likelihood of the venture’s profitability. The second work applies the findings of the previous section to construct a professional business plan for Deerhaus Decor LLC, a furniture and home decor boutique I intend to launch post-graduation. In addition, primary market research is conducted to verify the suitability of the small retail business’s location in an urban Cincinnati neighborhood experiencing revitalization. The business plan applies questionnaire findings to provide a more cohesive vision for the business, helping better construct the roadmap of its operations while answering the optimal amount of questions regarding the business’s structure."
2016_ECON_08303274.pdf	2016	U.S. policymakers often worry the American public will support military operations only if the human costs of armed conflict or war are minimal. This study will examine whether a specific form of presidential priming (‘rally-around-the-flag’ priming or ‘investment’ priming) is an effective tool for the President of the United States to minimize the constraints public opinion may place on a foreign policy initiative of the administration This study examines the direct impact of presidential priming on public opinion for the Iraq War, and is accomplished through the combination of content analysis of President George W. Bush’s the 2003 to 2008 weekly radio addresses to the nation, Gallup polls accounting for public opinion of the nation in regards to Iraq and a survey experiment. The research findings suggest that ‘rally-around-the-flag’ priming may be an effective form of priming; it remains undetermined whether ‘investment’ priming is an effective form of priming. Furthermore, the data suggest that priming may not overall be as effective at modifying public opinion as previously thought.
2016_ECON_08303468.pdf	2016	Opioid abuse continues to be an increasing problem in the United States. The recent epidemic is in direct proportion to the ever-increasing millions of Americans who suffer from pain. Twenty three states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia currently have medical marijuana laws. My theory suggests that there is a high potential for substitution of opiates to marijuana as legalization continues to take place. I tested treatment admissions for a variety of drugs in every state between 2010-2013 based on how many years they have had an MML and on various demographic variables. My goal was to analyze and determine whether there is evidence of substitution from painkillers, simultaneous diminishing of other drug abuse, or if marijuana was more likely to be a gateway to make opioid, and other drug abuse, worse. The results largely depended on demographics and I found that women, older men and women, and white men and women are more likely to struggle with increases in treatment admissions when marijuana is legalized. The results do, however, suggest that substitution does take place in relation to other drugs. Since the earliest law was enacted only twenty years ago, I suggest continued analysis for more conclusive results.
2016_ECON_08324562.pdf	2016	This Independent Study examines the relationship between political and security governance and state failure. Using a comparative case study methodology, it analyzes three cases: Somalia and the Sudan, two states that top the Fragile State Index’s “very high alert” category every year for instability, and Algeria, a state that is doing comparatively well and enjoying relative stability. Both functionalist and neofunctionalist theories are used to frame the phenomenon of state failure and explain how and why it can happen. These theories better explain the role of human agency and leadership in state failure. The hypothesis that poor political and security governance explains state failure is supported in both Sudan and Somalia, but not in Algeria, most likely due to the extreme centralization in the latter case. It is the hope that this Independent Study will serve to shed some light on the phenomenon of state failure and encourage future research on the matter.
2016_ECON_08348152.pdf	2016	"The 1969 Stonewall Riots marked the beginning of the modern lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT+) activist movement, and since then, the community has become increasingly visible. However, there is currently a severe lack of concrete demographic information on this population, making it difficult for researchers and activists to understand it and evaluate its needs. One key area in which research is lacking is that of poverty and socioeconomic class. This study, then, was conducted in an attempt to help fill this gap of knowledge, specifically in regards to sexual identity (i.e., LGB people), to determine whether there was a significant difference in food security status between households headed by same-sex couples and those headed by heterosexual couples. I hypothesized that, due to the effect of sexual orientation discrimination on one’s choice-making capability, queer individuals would be more likely to be food insecure. This was then tested using a feminist econometric model and data from the 2014 Current Population Survey’s Food Security Supplement. However, the results of this model directly contradicted the theory, and showed that queer people were actually less likely to be food insecure. Analyzing these results led me to the conclusion that the theory was sound, but it was the data which was inadequate, due to the subjectivity of self-identification and the relative social privilege required for individuals to have the capability to choose to come out, both of which contribute to the difficulty of creating a quantitative measure of sexual identity. This thesis, then, argues that before large-scale studies on the LGB community can even be conducted, data techniques must be improved so that an accurate and representative sample of queer people in a society can be obtained. From there, researchers and activists can move forward with this important work so that the needs of the LGB community can be assessed, thus allowing them to work towards rights, recognition, and equality."
2016_ECON_08364271.pdf	2016	This paper examines the impact of price, income, health insurance, and education on the uptake of the Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine “Gardasil” developed by Merck in 2008. The paper explores the relevant economic theory, particularly Grossman’s model for demand of health capital, and reviews literature of HPV vaccine uptake and cost effectiveness analysis. Using U.S. state average data from the CDC and U.S. Census Bureau 2010-2014, my panel data regression model tries to show how price, income, health insurance, and educational attainment impact HPV uptake rates. My hypothesis is that HPV vaccine price, the level of family income, health insurance and education should raise HPV vaccine uptake on the state average level. My results show a significant unexpected positive correlation between price and uptake, which may be due to limits of using national average price data. This result may show a raise in HPV vaccine demand over time. No significant evidence of correlation was found for income, health insurance, or education in my analysis.
2016_ECON_08382045.pdf	2016	The purpose of this study is to further understand whether or not the war loan drives that were conducted during World War II did in fact alter bond buying behavior for consumers.  The hypothesis of the study is as follows: the use of war loan drives and incentives played a role in increasing the purchasing of war bonds.  A historical analysis was conducted on the implementation of the World War II war loan drive program and the propaganda that was released as a result.  I then compared the motivations that American’s had for purchasing bonds to the themes presented in the propaganda.  As a result of this comparison, I discovered that American’s cited many of the same motivations used in the propaganda as their reasons for purchase bonds.  Using a theory of social preferences and incentives developed by Samuel Bowles and Sandra Polania-Reyes, an empirical analysis was conducted on public opinion data spanning from 1943 to 1944.  This data consisted of the different control variables gender, race, size of area population, and occupation and the bond buying habits of participants.  Based on the analysis it was discovered that there was a statistically significant relationship in the negative direction between the war loan drives and the bond buying behavior of participants.
2016_ECON_08383180.pdf	2016	The main topic of this paper looks at CEOs that have obtained a liberal arts degree. While past literature observes the quality of education obtained by a CEO, this paper differentiates by testing the difference in type of skills developed by a CEO through a liberal arts education. By doing so, two different theories are tested for significance. The first hypothesis states that CEOs with a liberal arts degree will have a positive effect on firm performance. Multiple OLS models are used to test for different measures of performance as well as other variable measurements. Observations come from 145 different firms pulled from the New York Stock Exchange. Initial results are reported insignificant but lead to the discussion on how further testing may yield different results. The second hypothesis looks at what types of firms tend to have a CEO with a liberal arts degree. In particular, theory developed states that more complex firms will have CEOs with a liberal arts degree. Using the same firms observed in the first regressions, a Probit model is run test for different types of firms. Again, most results are reported insignificant but lead to discussion on further research.
2016_ECON_08386674.pdf	2016	The European Union has long been studied as the culmination of an effort to create a more peaceful European continent. A focus on regional political and economic integration has led to a robust EU literature, including, more recently, scholarly exploration of EU foreign policy. Despite this, few scholars have engaged with the idea of the EU acting as an external peace actor. Bridging the literatures of EU foreign policy and peace studies, this project seeks to answer the following research question: has the development of the EU’s foreign policy framework impacted the ways in which the EU engages in building peace externally? The first stage of the project analyzes the peace orientations found in the EU’s formative treaties. The second stage presents an analysis of the mandates for the EU’s peace operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in order to determine the types of peace tools each operation employs. The study hypothesizes that the peace tools employed in EU peace operations will correspond to the peace orientations found in the organization’s key treaties. The findings of the study suggest that the peace orientations and peace tools are varied and the link between the two is inconclusive due to methodological difficulties. Finally, the study concludes that significant analytical value exists in research that combines elements of the EU foreign policy literature and peace studies. Building out of this apparent analytical value, the study contends that future research should continue developing new ways to explore the EU and the peace implications of its behavior.
2016_ECON_08386693.pdf	2016	The scale of movement of students going overseas to seek higher education has increased dramatically in the past several decades. According to the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), there were 4.1 million students pursuing tertiary level studies abroad in 2013. Despite the numerical significance, international students remain to be an under-studied group in migration studies. Thus this study largely draws from the international South-North labor migration debate, which revolves around whether this phenomenon is good (brain gain) or bad (brain drain) for the home countries. Using a comparative case study approach, this study investigates how the governments of the home or source countries can utilize international student mobility as a tool for national development by providing professional incentives to lure students abroad to return home after completing their studies overseas. This study emphasizes the important role of government-provided professional incentives in increasing the likelihood of students to return after the completion of their studies which could lead to the economic growth of their home countries. The study concludes that the home country can experience economic growth despite the failure of government-provided incentives to entice students to return after completing their student overseas. At the same time, it also suggests that the absence of government-provided incentives is detrimental to the economic growth of the home country because it leads to a shortage in human capital as students fail to return to their home countries.
2016_ECON_08386709.pdf	2016	The purpose of this research is to explore and explain the link between obesity and wages. Obesity may lower wages due to three theories. The first is that being obese may lower ones health capital, in turn lowering human capital and finally lowering wages. The second is that obese workers are being discriminated against in the workplace. The final reason I will discuss is that obese workers increase the insurance costs of firms, and these firms then transfer these costs to the obese workers in the form of lower wages. I will test these theories using regression analysis utilizing data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth. My findings indicate that insurance does not play a large role in the reduction of wages, therefore the wage gap is either due to discrimination or lower productivity.
2016_ECON_08386798.pdf	2016	"In developing societies, in the absence of formal insurance markets, when a household faces a catastrophic financial shock, are they left completely on their own? In this Independent Study thesis, I argue that these households have an informal insurance arrangement amongst themselves in which ""current generosity is justified by future reciprocity"" (Coate & Ravallion, 1993). Assuming that the income endowments of the households follow a memoryless stochastic Markov process, I argue that a risky environment where a financial catastrophe is always around the corner for any household makes these households continue to participate in this income-sharing arrangement. Developing a model of informal insurance using Markov chains and running a numerical simulation, I show that the stability of such an arrangement dependent only on the extent to which the present generation values the future alongside their degree of risk aversion and the severity of a possible catastrophe."
2016_ECON_08386914.pdf	2016	Previous studies have demonstrated that refugee presence makes host states more likely to experience conflicts. Although some refugees migrate with arms, combatants, and ideologies conducive to conflict, the vast majority almost never engage in violence. Their presence; however, impacts the economy and alters previously established social contracts, consequently making local groups more likely to engage in violence. The impact of a refugee population on a host economy; however, is conditional. While the factors that make refugees an asset in one country and a burden in another have a significant impact on the spread of conflict, they still remain undiscovered in the literature. I argue that domestic policies that inhibit refugee economic integration, through restricting freedom of movement and ability to sustain a livelihood, have a negative impact on the economy and make a host community more likely to engage in violent conflicts. To examine the relationship between policies related movement and employment on conflict spillover, I conduct a large N statistical analysis using data that covers 198 instances between 2005 and 2009. I find that freedom of movement is a significant factor in the relationship.
2016_ECON_08386921.pdf	2016	East Asian financial crisis in 1997-1998 was catastrophic for many affected countries. Past studies (e.g. Greenspan (1998), Radelet & Sachs (2000)) had presented the cause of the crisis, which had a common ground that there was a loss of confidence by investors in affected Asian countries which led to increase of perceived risk and increased interest rates of Asian assets. Past studies, however, did not address exactly why investors lose confidence on Asian assets. Using two-period model of consumption-savings decision; firm’s balance sheet cost-benefit analysis; and risk and uncertainty model, the current study examines the impact of poor corporate governance and expected exchange rate on the perceived risk in investing in Asian assets which is embodied in the interest rate spread between firms’ commercial paper and United States Treasury Bill (paper-bill spread). The regression analyses using firm-level data in Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand showed some evidence that corporate governance has significant impact on paper-bill spread.
2016_ECON_08387017.pdf	2016	This paper analyzes the impact of three different types of professional sports franchises on wages in certain economic sectors in 37 cities across the United States. A multitude of other studies have been done around similar areas, however I focus on the Service and Retail sector wages as they are generally low wage jobs. I find a significant positive impact on overall and Services wages by a MLB franchise and a significant positive impact on Services wages by a NBA franchise. However, a NFL franchise is shown to have no significant impact either positive or negative. This study helps to add to the limited amount of studies regarding economic impact of sports franchises. 
2016_ECON_08387159.pdf	2016	The rise of China is a hot topic in the 21st century. What does this rising superpower want to pursue, reflected by its grand strategy, has different implications to the international system in the new millennium. After the death of China’s Chairman Mao, China’s foreign policy follows a doctrine highlighted by its then de facto leader Deng Xiaoping, that insisted China should hide its ambitions and refrain from asserting its power in the global stage. This study seeks to find out whether China has experienced a grand strategy shift in the past ten years, and if yes, what are its driving forces. Existing literature on great power politics, in particular hegemonic stability theory and structural realism, provides different arguments on state behavior and its implications on China’s grand strategy. Based on the literature, this study provides three competing hypotheses and tests them with on a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods. Based on a thorough time series analysis between 2005 and 2014, as well as arguments supported by scholars in the field, this study suggests that China has indeed experienced a grand strategy shift. China’s need for security and safety, and a global environment that favors its existence are the driving forces for its grand strategy shift. China’s new grand strategy requires it to be more assertive and more engaging in the global arena by actively build up strategic partnerships and engage in international institutions. 
2016_ECON_08387362.pdf	2016	This thesis analyzes the effect of technical expenditures on the demand for labor in the oil and gas extraction industry. This analysis was done using a fixed-effect regression model. The findings suggest that increases in technological expenditures have an adverse effect on wages for laborers employed within the industry. The broader implications are increased technologies expenditures increase the wages for employees of higher skill, but negatively affect wages of those with lesser human capital stock.
2016_ECON_08387475.pdf	2016	"Why does the deadlock that has defined China-Taiwan relations for 65 years persist despite periods of extreme tension and change? I use the Model of Punctuated Equilibrium from evolutionary biology as a framework to answer this question. The PE Model is comprised of two parts, positive and negative feedback. A positive feedback mechanism, or punctuation, is a self-reinforcing process in which rapid change occurs as a result of attention-shift and mimicking. A negative feedback cycle, or equilibrium, is a self-correcting mechanism, which equalizes any outside force to create a stable output. According to this model, if China and Taiwan increase their disruptive actions, then the United States will increase its influence to promote stability, resulting in a lower level of conflict. To test my hypothesis, I implement a theory-guided case study. My first case encompasses the positive feedback cycle formed by the First and Second Taiwan Strait Crises. The second case discusses the Third Taiwan Strait Crisis and the 1999 Taiwan Strait Confrontation. The goal of this study is to explore the rise of conflict in the Taiwan Strait and the resultant level of negative feedback that stabilizes the situation until the political deadlock is reinstated.
2016_ECON_08388529.pdf	2016	How does the public perceive governmental foreign policy, and how do these perceptions change? By examining newspaper coverage of military interventions in Latin America, this paper analyzes media attitudes towards US-Latin American policy over time. It compares governmental reasoning for intervention to the reasoning, and critiques of reasoning, found in the coverage. The author utilizes 1927 Nicaraguan Intervention, 1965 Dominican Republic Intervention, and Operation Just Cause as data and identifies two contrasting trends within coverage over time. First is a willingness to deviate from government-sourced narratives concerning foreign policy decisions. This trend remains static through the Dominican Republic intervention before radically altering itself during Operation Just Cause. The second is an increased understanding of historical foreign policy and the importance of historical context. This trend intensifies as the 20th century progresses. These two trends combined suggest an increased concern with US foreign policy and its designs for Latin America specifically, in coordination with a decreased trust in government-sourced narratives. 
2016_ECON_08388921.pdf	2016	In this thesis, I present research in the fields of economics and history. I address both the current issue of non-profit hospital behavior surrounding charitable donations, and provide a recent historical perspective of the structure of hospital community benefits that has resulted from the regulatory environment the United States enacted in response to the shifting social paradigms of American healthcare. It is generally understood that non-profit hospitals provide a broad level of community benefits not received from for-profit hospitals. Further, altruistic donations to non-profit hospitals are considered necessary so they can provide charity care for the community’s most needy. This study attempts to investigate the destruction of traditional non-profit hospital tendencies, away from a purely charitable service, and towards one that is operated with profit seeking tendencies. I hypothesize that non-profit hospitals with a greater level of oversight by altruistic donors will spend less on expenditures that produce no value for the institution. I test this hypothesis empirically using a regression model that employs data of 20 hospitals spanning the fiscal years 2008 through 2012. The result of my analysis provides significant evidence in support of my economic hypothesis. Along with my historical argument, my study provides additional understanding of the way non- profit hospitals are run. This thesis is not meant as a policy suggestion, though it continues to add to the limited literature surrounding charitable donations in the non-profit healthcare sector.
2016_ECON_08391336.pdf	2016	This project analyzes the relationship between gift exchange and music consumption. Relationships in gift exchange are characterized through increasing rates of cyclical reciprocation over time. By actively participating in the gift exchange of music, preferences of music are believed to increase over time. The literature explores a wide variety of gift interpretations, incentives for active reciprocation, and how the inherently subjective value of music impacts willingness to pay. When juxtaposing social and economic theory, it is found that through the inclusion of social welfare, contrary to economic rationality, heightens levels of optimization. When the gift is understood as an economic incentive of pro-social behavior, the social context of the gift is what determines behavior and not the gift itself. Data were collected by distributing surveys to College of Wooster students asking them of their musical preferences respond to different contexts of music consumption. Although the effect of the gift could not be proved as a statistically significant indicator in changing behavior and welfare, qualitative analysis of written responses in the survey proved the effect of the theories for a limited population. This research could have been improved by considering the musical gift exchange in consumer-to-consumer relationships as opposed to this study’s focus on the artist-to-consumer relationship.
2016_ECON_08739071.pdf	2016	This project addresses the research question: how do nationalist leaders affect the levels of support for their self-determination movements? A review of the literature identified that this question has not been properly studied; therefore, in an effort to address this question, this study turns to charismatic leadership in order to close this large gap in the literature. The main hypothesis of this study is that if nationalist leaders are charismatic, then the leaders will be more likely to increase the levels of support for their self-determination movements. Charismatic leadership is regarded as the result of the combination of the following traits/skills: (1) visionary, (2) communicative, (3) trustworthy, (4) impression management. Two nationalist movement leaders from Catalonia were chosen for this study: (1) Jose Montilla, and (2) Artur Mas. According to this research, charismatic leadership has an effect on the levels of support for self-determination movements; however, these findings are inconclusive because of methodological difficulties. Changes need to be made and further experiments should be conducted to come to conclusive results.
2016_ECON_08775238.pdf	2016	During the 1980’s, India experienced a sudden decline in its Balance of Payments (BOP), which led the country to increase its national debt. The growing fiscal debt led to a decline in foreign investments in India, as the country was soon on the brink of a financial crisis. India experienced a severe depreciation during the 1991 financial crisis. Our study examines China’s foreign exchange intervention during the period 1980-2000, as we suspect that the People’s Bank of China’s (PBoC) currency manipulation coupled with the growing fiscal debt triggered the 1991 financial crisis. In our study we hypothesize that China’s currency manipulation had a negative effect on India’s BOP. In order to examine the BOP, we individualize the effect on the Capital and Current account. According to theory, the BOP should always equal zero, however, we are analyzing the Current and Capital account portions of the BOP, without taking into account the official reserves settlement account that balances out any surplus or deficit. We derive the Mundell-Fleming IS-LM model in order to theorize China’s currency manipulation. The five empirical articles that we analyze and evaluate help us derive our conceptual and operational model. Since we utilize a time series data set, we test for unit roots, and other tests such as multicollinearity, serial correlation and heteroskedasticity. The results of our empirical testing indicate that China’s currency manipulation had a significant effect on India’s Capital account only. Therefore, we prove our hypothesis, but with weak results.
2017_ECON_09803640.pdf	2017	Recently, there have been several initiatives to address corruption at the international level. However, there have been signals at the state level to suggest that corruption is negatively impacting the United States. While technological advancements have increased production levels, hourly wages have remained stagnant. It is crucial that we better understand corruption at the state level because it is associated with slow economic growth. This paper aims to investigate if evidence in support of the following hypothesis can be found: among the fifty United States, governments that show higher levels of corruption will tend to exhibit lower levels of yearly GDP per capita. This paper extends the previous literature done on the topic by using relevant theoretical models to construct a conceptual regression model that describes the relationship between political corruption and growth at the state level. I will specifically make use of three economic models to support my hypothesis: a theory on Bureaucratic Behavior, Rent-Seeking Behavior, and the Solow Growth Model. Given this theoretical approach and previous significant research done on the topic, I will then construct my own conceptual regression model to test for my proposed hypothesis. The results of this study find significant decrease in GDP per capita, a reduction educational attainment, and an increase in unemployment rate amongst other variables. My results suggest that corruption should be addressed at the state level to better encourage economic prosperity in the United States.
2017_ECON_09808394.pdf	2017	There are many ways of explaining what determines the human cost of civil wars, but little attention has focused on the relationship between religion and its dynamics and the human cost of civil wars. Religion is a powerful motivator and a large portion of the human population adheres to one of the world’s many religions. Consequently, it is important to understand how religion affects armed conflicts within states, one of the most common forms of large scale conflict in the world. Using a case study approach, this study examines civil wars in Algeria, the Philippines, Angola, and Peru, to test whether religious civil wars are costlier than non-religious civil wars in terms of human lives lost. Contrary to prior quantitative research, this study’s findings suggest that religious civil wars are not more costly than non-religious civil wars. However, there is some evidence that higher levels of religious outbidding correlate to higher cost levels. Future research should seek to examine more cases of religious civil wars qualitatively, to better understand the extent to which religion is a determinant of the human cost of civil wars.
2017_ECON_09827483.pdf	2017	This research examined the effect of parental leave policies and socio-economic factors on labor force participation in 29 OECD countries, with a focus on the United States, Germany, and Turkey. The aim of the study was to determine how various aspects of policy and demographic factors impact parents’ choice to remain or exit the labor market. Through an interdisciplinary analysis of economic and feminist theory and literature, this study found mixed results. The results of regression analysis did not support the hypotheses; however, several lessons about intersectional research were revealed. Mainly, the need for comprehensive parental leave policies is not necessarily justified through purely statistical research. The complexities of human and social identity transcend quantitative analysis.
2017_ECON_09829671.pdf	2017	"Following more than 40 years of conflict, the Colombian state has been moved down the list of priorities in the United States’ war on drugs. The United States provided the Colombian government with support for anti-narcotic initiatives, with some in part meant to combat the social and political opposition formed by the Colombian leftist-guerilla groups, and the Colombian cartels. The analysis of the war on drugs was broken down into three chapters, which together are meant to tell the narrative of the war on drugs in Colombia and the resulting fall out that has followed major policy shifts in Colombia. From the three differing perspectives, along with their own involvement and action in the war, it is clear that United States policy in Colombia failed to eliminate the production of narcotics. The policies did manage to produce unintended consequences, a militarization of Colombia’s response to issues, and a policy of going after individuals instead of operations. The war on drugs in Colombia was a policy failure, and the United States struggled to adapt to an industry manned by many of the actors locked in the same conflict. The implication of these outcomes is a greater understanding of just how complicated the situation in Colombia was, and how difficult it can be to produce results.
2017_ECON_09845377.pdf	2017	This study seeks to identify if internalized negative racial and ethnic stereotypes impact U.S. public support for Syrian refugee relocation. Related literature was reviewed to develop the two hypotheses for this study: the more one has internalized negative racial and ethnic stereotypes of refugees, the less supportive they will be towards refugee relocation, and that internalized stereotypes will be more influential than other economic or ideological factors. These hypotheses were tested through a survey using Amazon’s Mechanical Turk platform, and then analyzed with ordered logit regression. The results of this study indicated that positive traits associated with Syrian refugees led to higher support for relocation, while negative traits resulted in decreased support. These results prove the first hypothesis of this study to be true; however, the second hypothesis was not proven due to limited statistical analysis. Influenced by the findings of this study, policy recommendations and potential implications to reduce the use of stereotypes in public discourse on refugees were made.
2017_ECON_09846140.pdf	2017	"Supporters believe that the emergence of charter schools can provide disenfranchised students with profound academic opportunities. Critics believe that the market-oriented school choice system will aggravate inequalities. The purpose of the paper is to examine the locational decisions of charter schools in the city of Chicago, Illinois. I utilize an ordered probit and the marginal effects analysis to estimate the need-based, market creaming, and political-institutional models. Some findings are consistent with the belief that charter schools detain from locating in areas with larger percentages of minorities, which causes an increases in segregation while other finding support the response charter schools have with competing surrounding schools; in conclusion, I found that the supporters and critics do not evaluate the complexity of charter school location and that the location pattern appears more sensitive to the characteristics of the area. 
2017_ECON_09846667.pdf	2017	This study examines the effect of government-provided education benefits on military enlistment and reenlistment during the global war on terror.  Conceptually, education benefits are viewed as a form of military compensation and a way to cover the direct costs associated with a college degree.  Because a college degree increases the earnings one can receive in the civilian sector, education benefits are expected to increase the utility of both the military and the civilian sector.  The hypothesis is that education benefits lead to an increase in the likelihood of enlistment and a decrease in the likelihood of reenlistment.  According to past literature, this relationship holds, but is outdated.  This study seeks to update these results and make them generalizable to the global war on terror and the Post-9/11 GI Bill.  It does so by testing the hypotheses using fixed effects regressions on annual state recruitment and retention levels.  In addition, the models are estimated for the Montgomery GI Bill and the Post-9/11 GI Bill to distinguish between the effects of different programs.  The results indicate that education benefits have no significant effect on recruitment and a positive effect on retention, or the level of personnel.  The Montgomery GI Bill had the greatest impact with an increase in retention per 1,000 population 18-30 years of age by 11.44 personnel, while the Post-9/11 GI Bill had no significant impact. 
2017_ECON_09875667.pdf	2017	This paper identifies a considerable gap in the literature that studies living wage policy. The field of living wage research is relatively small, as the topic is fairly new. There is little consensus between economists on the complete effects that a living wage policy has on a given labor market. This might be a construct of the wide variety of testing methods and model specifications that are used in the research process. However, most studies fail to recognize the spatial implications of the policy. The introduction of a living wage must be studied in a way that addresses the change in the composition of the metropolitan labor market. Since living wage policies have been implemented only in large metropolitan cities thus far, it should be studied in a manner that observes the differences between neighboring labor markets, rather than aggregating data from the entire geographic location. The model presented in this paper includes several independent variables to evaluate the spatial effects that a living wage policy has when estimating income and employment.
2017_ECON_09879686.pdf	2017	For the last few decades, women have played a greater role in terrorism. Yet Western news and popular media outlets constantly frame terrorism as a male-controlled domain and that women simply do not fit the “terrorist profile”. When a woman does commit an act of terror, the media manipulates gender images and stereotypes in order to explain her violent behavior. While scholars acknowledge that such gendered narratives distort reality, none have systematically analyzed the effects such messaging techniques have on public perception. For that reason, this study aims to understand how gendered messaging strategies affect individuals’ attitudes towards perceived threat of female terrorists. As such, I tested the efficacy of gendered media messaging by using an experimental research design in which respondents were randomly assigned to one of six treatment groups and shown a short news article with a basic, feminized, or “beautified” frame that recounted an event of a fictitious terrorist attack. After completing the survey, respondents were asked questions regarding their perceptions of threat and willingness to punish the perpetrator. The results of this study illustrate that amplified narratives, containing gendered language with details of the female terrorist’s physical characteristics, are the most effective at provoking higher levels of threat as opposed to a male terrorist committing an identical crime.
2017_ECON_09911442.pdf	2017	Are World Heritage Sites being created for the protection of their cultural heritage or are they being created to meet short term political and economic goals? This study explores the politics behind World Heritage Site inscription and the subsequent increase in personal tourism arrivals by utilizing political theory, economic theory, and regression analysis. The political theory discusses the political economy of World Heritage Site nomination through the theories of International Political Economy, balance of power, and multilateralism. The economic theory explores the economic effects of a World Heritage Site through externalities and supply demand shifts. Lastly, the regression analysis evaluates the impact of World Heritage Sites on personal tourism arrivals and personal tourism expenditure using panel data with a sample of 58 states from 2011-2015. My findings suggest UNESCO World Heritage Sites do not significantly affect personal tourism expenditure, but do significantly increase personal tourism arrivals.
2017_ECON_09917963.pdf	2017	The purpose of this research is to determine the effect playing a sport at the College of Wooster has on an individual’s success in the job market. I hypothesize that due to a higher level of productivity, student-athletes at the College of Wooster have greater success in the job market compared to non-student athletes. After surveying over 600 College of Wooster alumni, I use an OLS regression to test the effect playing a sport has on an individual’s first and current salary, as well as the length it took the individual to obtain employment. The findings show that student-athletes earn a higher salary than non-student-athletes; yet the results regarding the time it took to find employment were insignificant. 
2017_ECON_09923911.pdf	2017	Despite the vast research done and prominent media representation of post-World War II Germany, the surface is just being scratched in regards to the discussion of Germany’s shifting political, economic, and social climates as a result of the Syrian refugee crisis. The relationship between Germany and the Syrian refugee crisis is internationally known, however it is often portrayed as an unsolvable humanitarian crisis that needs attention. Correspondingly, Germany and Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, are depicted as brave, philanthropic actors of aid as they welcomed millions of Syrians into their country. Through literature and news sources discussing chancellor Angela Merkel, Germany’s stance on multiculturalism, the causes and consequences of the Syrian refugee crisis, and the definitions of German Heimat and home, the social, political, and humanitarian histories of these topics led to ideas and explanations of the current state of Germany and the people living there. As a result of the influx of Syrians into Germany, there has been a sense of soul searching and a pursuit for home, as the face of Germany has proven to be fluid. Researching this relationship that links Germany and the Syrian refugee crisis has led to a creation of ideas about how the Syrian refugees living in Germany has ultimately created a national confusion of identity and sense of home, while Syrians are acclimating, integrating, and finding their own sense of home. It is clear that there are gaps in literature researching and discussing these findings and it is essential, as the world moves forward, to create the discussion and academic representation of Germany’s relationship with the Syrian refugee crisis and the effects of this relationship on Germany and Syrians, predominately focusing on German society and national identity today.  
2017_ECON_09925415.pdf	2017	The emphasis on human capital formation as a means to achieve increased productivity and economic growth lead many countries to develop immigration policies that favored skilled worker migration from less developed countries. In the recent decades, the increased demand from developed countries for high-skilled labor caused a surge in the rate of high-skill emigration. The increased circulation of skilled migrants from less developed to developed countries brings about many complex economic implications for both sending and host countries. Drawing from brain drain literature that focuses on emigration prospects and human capital formation in sending countries, this paper develops a game theoretic model that looks at the strategic interaction between prospective emigrants and the home country. Congruent with literature, theoretical results show that better emigration prospects induce investment in education in native workers, which under certain circumstances can lead to human capital accumulation in the developing country.
2017_ECON_09925425.pdf	2017	Human-induced climate change is affecting global climate in unprecedented ways. As the global temperature rises, there are sure to be numerous effects on the world’s systems, both natural and unnatural. Many researchers and policymakers have tried to identify links between climate change and how they affect political stability. This I.S. attempts to add to this body of literature by analyzing three cases from the West African Sahel region. After conducting qualitative case studies of Senegal, Burkina Faso and Mali, this I.S. concludes that a potential, direct link exists between environmental degradation caused by climate change and state insecurity.
2017_ECON_09925703.pdf	2017	"In this research study, I evaluate social capital’s impacts on GDP and HDI and the influence of noteworthy intra-state conflicts on social capital’s impacts on the two. I use Fehr and Schmidt’s (1999) utility model based on social preferences to theoretically demonstrate that without intra-state conflicts social capital positively impacts GDP and HDI and that noteworthy intra-state conflicts diminish these positive impacts of social capital on GDP and HDI that state governments, markets, and civil society organizations as social capital mechanisms can facilitate in at least two cases: public goods contributions and investment. I then empirically evaluate four variable hypotheses by using macro-economic data on 144 countries in 2010 to conduct cross-sectional empirical analysis. The findings of the analysis unfortunately fail to confirm the validity of these four variable hypotheses. However, they do suggest that future research on political and economic policies involving noteworthy intra-state conflicts, unemployment rates, intellectual property laws and norms, and internet infrastructure in terms of their own impacts on GDP and HDI is greatly warranted.
2017_ECON_09925726.pdf	2017	"The purpose of this study is to test the effects of innovative entrepreneurship on urban economic performance. This paper develops a theoretical model using an urban production function and agglomeration economy model framework. The urban production model is an expansion of a neoclassical production function that presents urban output as a function of labor and capital and also as a function of agglomerative factors and technology. These agglomerative factors present characteristics that promote innovation within urban areas. Two empirical models were created using , the first of which tests the factors that influence the presence of small firms based on characteristics of metropolitan areas that promote innovation. The second empirical was developed to determine the effects the presence of small firms have on metropolitan economic performance. In a sequential framework, the findings of this study present evidence that innovation and dynamic agglomeration contribute to the viability of urban areas. 
2017_ECON_09926009.pdf	2017	Beginning with the definition of key terms and concepts of international relations- based on the relationships between the world’s religions, ethnicity, nationalism, individual and social identity, the perception of threat, power, and national security- I develop a new theoretical approach that provides a synthesis of prior explanations for ethnic conflict and state security. I then test the expectations of this approach on the religious plurality and military expenditures of states for all dyad years from 1960 to 2005. I find strong support for its predictions based on shared religious plurality, the perception of threat, and the directed and joint military expenditures of states. Further, the findings provide insights into the effects of shared religious plurality among sender and target states, as well as the effects of alliance formation, the balance of power, economic interdependence, joint democracy, and interdependence. Thus, this independent study distinguishes the relative importance of both religion as a determining characteristic and pattern of ethnicity, and military expenditure as an explanatory factor of state security, and therefore has broadly interesting implications for the study of international relations.
2017_ECON_09927271.pdf	2017	Esta investigación se trata del nivel alto de la violencia en Latinoamérica hoy en día. La enfoca es en América Central específicamente. La investigación intenta responder a la pregunta: ¿Qué es la causa del aumento dramático en la tasa de homicidios en América Central? La hipótesis de esta investigación propone que el aumento de la implementación de policías consideradas como Mano Dura va a incrementar la tasa de homicidios en América Central. Esta relación se debe a la teoría que un aumento de represión por el gobierno resuelta en el aumento de violencia al nivel de la sociedad. Esto es verdad en el caso de las maras y pandillas de América Central porque represalia por maras y pandillas contra el gobierno es muy común. La investigación utiliza un estudio de casos y usa el método de diferencia por John Stuart Mill. Hay cuatro casos estudiados; (1) El Salvador en 2012, (2) El Salvador en 2015, (3) Honduras en 2012, y (4) Honduras en 2015. Por eso la investigación es transnacional y temporal. El Salvador es el caso con tendencia creciente en su tasa de homicidios y es el caso positivo, y Honduras tiene tendencia creciente en su tasa de homicidios y es el caso negativo. Al fin, no hay evidencia suficiente proporcionada por el análisis para apoyar la hipótesis.
2010_ECON_08553858.pdf	2010	As developed nations alter their immigration policies to attract high-skill workers from abroad, the rate of human capital movement across borders— especially from the developing world—has surged in the recent past. However, increased high-skill emigration has more complex economic implications for a developing country than the obvious brain drain. This paper develops a game theoretic model based on Albert Hirschman’s Exit-Voice-Loyalty (EVL) concept and the Tiebout hypothesis to explain a citizen’s emigration decision. The outcomes of the game are applied to the human capital augmented Solow growth model to explore the effects of emigration on the source country’s economic growth. Theoretical results show that, under certain circumstances outlined by the EVL game, emigration can lead to increased human capital accumulation in a developing country in two ways. First, the prospect of emigration generates extra incentive for individuals to invest in education. Second, return migration triggered by the government’s reaction to foot-voting costs brings technological knowledge from the developed countries.